<TEST	14844	grain	corn>
the sale of the company 's European corn wet milling business will remove about 700 mln dlrs of debt and liabilities from CPC 's balance sheet . They told analysts the deal , expected to close in September , and cash flow from other operations will reduce total debt by about one-third this year . At the end of 1986 , CPC 's debt totaled about 1.5 billion dlrs . The officials also said the company has no current plans to sell its U.S. or North American corn wet milling businesses . CPC 's 1987 capital spending is budgeted at about 250 mln dlrs , down from about 361 mln dlrs last year , the officials told analysts . Reuter 
<TEST	21458	money-fx>
criticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday , when he was reported as saying he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was , specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs to the pound . Holding up a newspaper report on his comments headed " Exchange Rate Targets Set " Lawson told journalists " This story is a complete non-event . " He criticised the report , which said he was now targetting sterling against the dollar and mark . " Nothing of the sort occurred , " Lawson said . Lawson said he had only told National Economic Development Council panel members what the pound 's current dollar/mark rates were that day , after saying he was happy with current sterling levels . He said he had told the NEDC , a tripartite forum of government , unions and industry , that the pound would be kept near its present level by a mixture of interest rates and intervention on foreign exchange markets . He then repeated to the panel that he remained satisfed with sterling at around its current levels following the Paris accord in February on currency stabilisation . REUTER 
<TEST	21460	trade>
Lyng warned Japan that the failure to remove a longstanding import quota on Japanese beef might spark a protectionist response in the United States . " Given the protectionist mood in the Congress and the country , if I were a leader in Japan I would certainly be very concerned ...and the failure to remove it ( the beef quota ) might be very serious , " Lyng told a group of U.S cattlemen . Lyng said he and Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter , during a visit to Japan later this month , will demand " total elimination " of the beef import quota by April 1988 . The current dispute with Japan over semiconductor may strengthen the U.S. stance in farm trade negotiations , Lyng said , because Japan does not want a trade war with the U.S. Lyng dismissed recent statements in Tokyo that Japan might retaliate against U.S. products as a result of the semiconductor dispute . " They ( Japan ) are n't going to pick a fight with us ," Lyng said , adding that with its huge bilateral trade surplus Japan has more to lose in a trade war than the United States . Lyng told the U.S. cattlemen that the quota on Japanese beef imports does not allow consumers there an adequate choice in food purchases . He said in addition to beef , the U.S. will press for eliminiation of import barriers on Japan 's citrus and rice as well . Lyng noted that Japan is the largest buyer of U.S. farm products , principally grains and soybeans . Reuter 
<TEST	21464	money-fx>
criticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday , when he was reported as saying he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was , specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs to the pound . Holding up a newspaper report on his comments headed " Exchange Rate Targets Set " Lawson told journalists " This story is a complete non-event . " He criticised the report , which said he was now targetting sterling against the dollar and mark . " Nothing of the sort occurred , " Lawson said . Lawson said he had only told National Economic Development Council panel members what the pound 's current dollar/mark rates were that day , after saying he was happy with current sterling levels . He said he had told the NEDC , a tripartite forum of government , unions and industry , that the pound would be kept near its present level by a mixture of interest rates and intervention on foreign exchange markets . He then repeated to the panel that he remained satisfed with sterling at around its current levels following the Paris accord in February on currency stabilisation . Reuter 
<TEST	21472	grain	wheat>
today to make available a further 70,000 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat for sale on to the British domestic market , trade sources said here . This will be additional to the 31,000 tonnes remaining after this week 's sale of 126,031 tonnes of domestic feed wheat to the home market , British officials said in London . Reuter 
<TEST	21495	grain	wheat>
agreed in Brussels today that 300,000 tonnes of U.K. Intervention wheat would be made available for sale on the U.K. Home market over the next three months , the Ministry of Agriculture said . The committee agreed that 70,000 tonnes of wheat would be made available on April 14 followed by a further 30,000 tonnes later in the month . It also gave an assurance that a further 100,000 tonnes would be allocated for both May and June , which would complete the 300,000 tonnes originally requested by the U.K.. The ministry said sales out of intervention for July and August would be discussed later . Earlier , Paris trade sources said the EC Commission made available a further 70,000 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat for sale to the domestic market . Reuter 
<TEST	21507	interest	money-fx>
warmly welcomed this week 's increase in U.S. Prime rates , calling it a move that went beyond the Group of Five and Canada Paris accord on stabilising currencies . The rate rise would underpin economic and financial policy convergence among major countries , he added . In an interview with Reuters , Eyskens also made clear he believed the countries involved in the accord the U.S. , Japan , West Germany , France , Britain and Canada had agreed " tentative " fluctuation ranges for exchange rates . Eyskens was speaking before hosting an informal meeting of European Community finance ministers and central bank chiefs in Belgium this weekend focusing on the international monetary situation and proposals for strengthening the European Monetary System ( EMS ) . Asked about the dollar 's recent fall on currency markets , Eyskens said he believed the Paris agreement was proving " more or less workable " despite what he called evident disagreements over U.S. Economic and monetary policy between Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker . Besides Baker 's public statements that had dramatically influenced exchange markets , trade tensions between the U.S.And Japan had also caused the dollar 's fall , expecially against the yen , he said . But he expressed optimism that Washington and Tokyo could reach a compromise in their row over semi-conductor trade . " I think agreement is quite possibl e , " he said . Eyskens said he was " very agreeably surprised " by this week 's quarter-point increase in U.S. Prime rates despite the obvious negative consequences for debtor countries . " It is a positive element which goes further than the ( Paris ) Louvre agreement ...It is the market taking account of its content , " he said . He added that coordination of interest rates was a fundamental element of economic and monetary convergence between leading industrialised economies . " A policy of maintaining exchange rates within fluctuation ranges is not possible if it is not accompanied at least by a more coordinated policy of interest rates , " he said . Eyskens made clear he believed the G-6 countries had agreed in Paris on ranges in which to hold their currencies . He said the end of the February 22 Louvre accord , in which the partners agreed to cooperate closely to foster exchange rate stability around current levels , clearly alluded to a " system of tentative ( fluctuation ) margins . " He added the meeting and the statement would have been meaningless if the G-6 had not discussed the technicalities of implementing it . Eyskens said there was growing economic convergence among leading industrialised countries pointing towards greater order in the international monetary system . " That does n't mean we are ready to restore Bretton Woods ( the post-World War Two system of fixed exchange rates ) , but within the ( International Monetary Fund ) Interim Committee we are thinking in terms of target zones , fluctuation ranges to be implemented and defended , " he said . The Interim Committee meets next week in Washington ahead of the IMF 's Spring meetings , and Eyskens said the EC ministers would prepare for the gatherings at this weekend 's talks . He said he hoped for wide-ranging talks on the future of the EMS at the weekend meeting , based on proposals from the EC 's Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governors for strengthening the system through technical and institutional changes . Eyskens said he expected EC Commission President Jacques Delors to submit proposals for fully liberalising capital movements within the 12-nation bloc and made clear he shared Delors ' view that this must be accompanied by a reinforcement of the EMS . " Both are totally linked . Liberalisation without strengthening the EMS would destabilise the Community , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	21510	interest	money-fx>
warmly welcomed this week 's increase in U.S. Prime rates , calling it a move that went beyond the Group of Five and Canada Paris accord on stabilising currencies . The rate rise would underpin economic and financial policy convergence among major countries , he added . In an interview with Reuters , Eyskens also made clear he believed the countries involved in the accord the U.S. , Japan , West Germany , France , Britain and Canada had agreed " tentative " fluctuation ranges for exchange rates . Eyskens was speaking before hosting an informal meeting of European Community finance ministers and central bank chiefs in Belgium this weekend focusing on the international monetary situation and proposals for strengthening the European Monetary System ( EMS ) . Asked about the dollar 's recent fall on currency markets , Eyskens said he believed the Paris agreement was proving " more or less workable " despite what he called evident disagreements over U.S. Economic and monetary policy between Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker . Besides Baker 's public statements that had dramatically influenced exchange markets , trade tensions between the U.S.And Japan had also caused the dollar 's fall , expecially against the yen , he said . But he expressed optimism that Washington and Tokyo could reach a compromise in their row over semi-conductor trade . " I think agreement is quite possibl e , " he said . Eyskens said he was " very agreeably surprised " by this week 's quarter-point increase in U.S. Prime rates despite the obvious negative consequences for debtor countries . " It is a positive element which goes further than the ( Paris ) Louvre agreement ...It is the market taking account of its content , " he said . He added that coordination of interest rates was a fundamental element of economic and monetary convergence between leading industrialised economies . " A policy of maintaining exchange rates within fluctuation ranges is not possible if it is not accompanied at least by a more coordinated policy of interest rates , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	21530	money-fx>
Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson described remarks he made yesterday on targets for the pound as " insignificant , " rallying back up almost exactly to the levels it had fetched before Lawson spoke yesterday , dealers and analysts said . They said sterling would likely leave the limelight once again to trade quietly around current levels , as the markets set their sights on the dollar , yen and mark again ahead of key international monetary talks in Washington next week . Sterling ended its European day at 1.6020/30 dlrs , virtually unchanged from yesterday 's last 1.6040/50 dlrs , fetched before Lawson 's first comment . But it was well up on levels just above 1.59 dlrs which it had held until the second comment came . Against the mark , sterling recovered to close at 2.9190/9240 marks after today 's opening 2.9040/90 and last night 's 2.9210/ 45 . "On balance , it is as if nothing happened We are back to where we were before , " Mark Brett , economist at securities house Barclays de Zoete Wedd said . " This whole story is like a storm in a teacup , " a dealer with a U.K. Bank commented . The pound 's recovery was triggered when Lawson criticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday , when he told a conference he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was . In this context , Lawson was reported to have specified rates of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs to the pound in remarks which markets were quick to interpret as a signal to sell sterling . Lawson said today he had merely stated yesterday 's approximate value of the pound . " The wrong end of the stick was picked up ," he told reporters , adding his comments did in no way signal a change in British exchange rate policies . Dealers and analysts said the reactions to both statements were clear evidence that the market , frustrated by the relative currency stability after the February 22 Paris agreement , was desperate to reactivate trading and would react to any clues offered about the contents of the currency accord . In Paris , finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada are widely believed to have agreed exchange rate targets , although no participant has specified these in an apparent bid to foster stability by keeping markets gues sing . " The markets are absolutely desperate to get clues on Group of Six ( countries that are part to the Paris agreement ) targets The number of rumours flying around is bigger than ever before , " said Barclays de Zoete Wedd 's Brett . Analysts said neither yesterday 's remarks nor today 's had changed their impression that after Paris , sterling was targeted to trade in broad ranges against major currencies . All polled analysts said if anything , the 2.90 marks level mentioned by Lawson was probably the centre of a wide 20-pfennig range which sterling would easily hold , helped by good economic indicators and relatively high interest rates . " It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of an election I do n't believe Lawson is mad enough to tie himself to a fixed rate , " Brett said . He expected sterling to firm over the next few weeks , to around 2.95 marks and 1.63 dlrs , as overseas investors reappraised high-yielding investments here . Robin Marshall , chief economist at Chase Manhattan Securities , said he was not surprised to see Lawson qualify his sterling target comments so quickly . "His remarks gave markets a target to aim at , " he said , adding , " He ( Lawson ) talked himself into a bit of a corner on this It made him a hostage to fortune . " Marshall and other analysts dismissed a theory , that by quoting target rates Lawson had attempted to put pressure on prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to agree to British membership of the European Monetary System ( EMS ) , as implausible . Reuter 
<TEST	21563	dlr	money-fx>
Fitzwater said that comments made in congressional testimony by Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter do not reflect the government 's position . Yeutter was questioned about the dollar during testimony to the Senate Finance Committee . Fitzwater said in a statement Yeutter 's comments were in response to a hypothetical question " and do not reflect the government 's position . " " I want to emphasize that only the president and the secretray of the treasury are authorized to comment on the dollar , " the spokesman said . Yeutter , asked whether the U.S. trade deficit would improve more if the value of the dollar dropped further , replied , " That should be a mathematical truism . " But he added that markets are more complicated than that . He said he expected the current decline in the dollar to show up soon in the decline in the value of imports . Reuter 
<TEST	21551	grain	corn>
tonnes to its previous purchases of U.S. corn purchases , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . In its Export Sales Report covering transactions in the week ended March 26 , the department said changes in destinations of 250,000 tonnes of corn to the Soviet Union were reported . However , 200,000 tonnes of the transaction was reported under the daily reporting system . Total corn commitments for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Grain Supply Agreement amount to 2,650,000 tonnes . Reuter 
<TEST	21566	grain	wheat	corn>
acreage may not make a big dent in the U.S. grain stockpile but will at least keep grain surpluses from increasing , Agriculture Department and industry commodity analysts said . " The scenario is turning around on stocks . The whole supply/demand picture could finally be getting more in balanc e , " a USDA analyst said . The USDA prospective plantings report this week indicated that U.S. farmers will idle 52 to 55 mln acres in annual acreage reduction programs this year . An additional 20 mln acres have been enrolled in the conservation reserve program , bringing total idled acreage in the U.S. to 72-75 mln acres , almost a third of the nation 's total 235 mln acre crop base . Production of wheat , corn and soybeans in 1986/87 will probably closely match annual usage , limiting any buildup in stocks , analysts said . " It 's a substantially different story from last year when we added 1.5 billion bushels of corn to the stockpile , " Vernon McMinimy , director of commodity research for Staley Co. said . Interviewed at an agribusiness education conference here , McMinimy said that 67.6 mln planted acres of corn will likely translate into 60 mln harvested acres , and with normal yields , final production of 6.9 to 7.0 billion bushels . McMinimy estimated that total U.S. corn disappearance in 1986/87 could end up at 7.1 billion bushels , possibly resulting in a 200-million bushel reduction in the current corn stockpile of 5.45 billion bushels . " To say this represents a turn-around is wrong , but we 're at least in a holding pattern , " George Hoffman , director of commodity analysis for Pillsbury said . Hoffman said wheat stocks could rise slightly by the end of 1986/87 to 1.9 billion bushels due to " significantly less " domestic feed use for wheat because of lower corn prices . USDA analysts , however , project slightly higher usage and said wheat stocks will either decrease slightly or at least not increase . With yearly use at around two billion bushels , next year 's projected crop could be used up , an analyst said . " We wo n't be adding to stocks . Stocks are at a record now , so if we can begin to touch them even minutely through acreage reductions , that would be an improvement , " an Agriculture Department wheat analyst said . Soybean planted acreage , at 56.9 mln acres , would be the smallest planted soybean acreage since 1976 and could lower final production by 150 mln bushels and ending stocks by 50 to 100 mln bushels , analysts said . As more marginal , erodable acreage is enrolled in the conservation reserve program , annual acreage reduction programs will be more effective because they will force more high producing land out of production , a USDA analyst said . " We can now maybe see the light at the end of a very long tun nel , " the analyst said . Reuter 
<TEST	21568	grain	corn	wheat>
corn shipped to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 26 , according to the U.S. Agriculture Department 's latest Export Sales report . There were no wheat or soybean shipments during the week . The USSR has purchased 2.65 mln tonnes of U.S. corn , as of March 26 , for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement . Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement , which ended September 30 , amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat , 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans . Reuter 
<TEST	21570	grain	corn>
prices have successfully increased PIK-and-roll activity as a way to pull corn out of government stockpiles , with the resulting jump in free supplies pressuring terminal corn basis values , cash grain dealers said . Processors dropped spot Chicago corn basis bids three cents after covering most of the April needs this week , with river corn basis bids following CIF Gulf corn values lower . The surge in PIK-and-roll also pressured corn futures , with May settling today down three cents per bushel at 1.58-1/2 dlrs , near the contract low of 1.49-1/4 dlrs . But unlike in the past when lower prices slowed country movement , now lower county prices widen the differentials with the corn loan and make PIK-and-roll even more attractive , they noted . Reuter 
<TEST	21577	grain	wheat	corn>
acreage may not make a big dent in the U.S. grain stockpile but will at least keep grain surpluses from increasing , Agriculture Department and industry commodity analysts said . " The scenario is turning around on stocks . The whole supply/demand picture could finally be getting more in balanc e , " a USDA analyst said . The USDA prospective plantings report this week indicated that U.S. farmers will idle 52-55 mln acres in annual acreage reduction programs this year . An additional 20 mln acres have been enrolled in the conservation reserve program , bringing total idled acreage in the U.S. to 72-75 mln acres , almost a third of the nation 's total 235 mln acre crop base . Production of wheat , corn and soybeans in 1986/87 will probably closely match annual usage , limiting any buildup in stocks , analysts said . " It 's a substantially different story from last year when we added 1.5 billion bushels of corn to the stockpile , " Vernon McMinimy , director of commodity research for Staley Co. said . Interviewed at an agribusiness education conference here , McMinimy said that 67.6 mln planted acres of corn will likely translate into 60 mln harvested acres , and with normal yields , final production of 6.9 to 7.0 billion bushels . McMinimy estimated that total U.S. corn disappearance in 1986/87 could end up at 7.1 billion bushels , possibly resulting in a 200-million bushel reduction in the current corn stockpile of 5.45 billion bushels . " To say this represents a turn-around is wrong , but we 're at least in a holding pattern , " George Hoffman , director of commodity analysis for Pillsbury said . Hoffman said wheat stocks could rise slightly by the end of 1986/87 to 1.9 billion bushels due to " significantly less " domestic feed use for wheat because of lower corn prices . USDA analysts , however , project slightly higher usage and said wheat stocks will either decrease slightly or at least not increase . With yearly use at around two billion bushels , next year 's projected crop could be used up , an analyst said . " We wo n't be adding to stocks . Stocks are at a record now , so if we can begin to touch them even minutely through acreage reductions , that would be an improvement , " an Agriculture Department wheat analyst said . Reuter 
<TEST	21580	grain	wheat>
225,000 tonnes of U.S. hard and soft wheat under the USDA 's Export Bonus program for April through November shipment , private export sources said . Reuter 
<TEST	21583	grain	wheat>
French wheat at tonight 's tender , a Brazilian Wheat Board spokesman said . For May shipment , it accepted offers from J. Souflet for 50,000 tonnes of wheat at 83.49 dlrs Fob per tonne . For June shipment , Brazil bought 25,000 tonnes from J. Souflet also at 83.49 dlrs Fob per tonne . The next tender is set for April 9 , for May , June and July shipment , the spokesman said . Reuter 
<TEST	2043	ship	crude>
boats that tried to approach its disused deep water oil terminal in the northern Gulf today . A military spokesman , quoted by the official Iraqi news agency , said other Iranian boats fled . He did not identify the vessels . Iraq 's major oil outlets in the northern Gulf were closed shortly after the war with Iran started in late 1980 . Reuter 
<TEST	22094	acq	ship>
financially troubled overseas construction firms and two shipping companies under the government 's industrial realignment programme , Finance Ministry officials said . They said the Industrial Policy Deliberation Committee decided to allow concessionary loans to three firms taking over the eight . The companies involved would be exempted from corporate tax and property transfer and registration taxes . Under the programme , five subsidaries of <Chung Woo Development Co Ltd> will be taken over by <B yuck San Corp> , <Korea Develpoment Corp> by <Daelim Industrial Co Ltd> , and two subsidaries of <Korea Shipping Corp> by the <Hanjin Group > . Another five construction companies were ordered to improve their financial status by reorganising their subsidiaries or selling off unproductive real estate holdings to help repay bank loans , the officials said . These are < Pacific Construction Co Ltd> , <Life Construction Co Ltd> , <C hin Heung International Co Ltd> , <Samick Co Ltd> and <Hanshin Construction Co Ltd> . A further five shipping companies <Hanjin Container Line Ltd> , <Choyang Shipping Co Ltd> , <H yundai Merchant Marine Co Ltd> , <Pan Ocean Shipping Co> and <Dooyang Line Co Ltd> will be allowed to defer the repayment of bank loans and interest , but details have yet to be finalised , the officials said . They said the government would take similar measures for more companies in August in line with the continuing realignment policy , which had already affected 56 firms last year . REUTER 
<TEST	22170	grain	wheat>
to tackle the country 's current food crisis could lead to a famine , the leader of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party , Khaleda Zia , told a press conference yesterday . Prices of rice rose by at least 25 pct across the country in March and the government has begun emergency rice and wheat sales to lower cereal prices , a food ministry report said . Ministry officials said the next harvest , due in mid-April will ease the situation . " Temporary grain shortage in the arid north and some other rain-starved regions is not unusual at this time of the year , " one official said . Khaleda , said corrupt practices by food officials and failure to procure enough grains contributed to the crisis . Her remarks coincided with newspaper reports that a continuing heat wave has destroyed thousands of acres of crops in the south-west . Officials said last week Bangladesh now has only 390,000 tonnes of grain in stock which would be exhausted in two or three weeks . Bangladesh expects to produce 14.5 mln tonnes of rice and 1.5 mln tonnes of wheat in 1986/87 ending June 30 . It revised its food import target for this fiscal year upward by 300,000 tonnes to 1.8 mln . REUTER 
<TEST	14826	trade>
U.S. And Japan has raised fears among many of Asia 's exporting nations that the row could inflict far-reaching economic damage , businessmen and officials said . They told Reuter correspondents in Asian capitals a U.S. Move against Japan might boost protectionist sentiment in the U.S. And lead to curbs on American imports of their products . But some exporters said that while the conflict would hurt them in the long-run , in the short-term Tokyo 's loss might be their gain . The U.S. Has said it will impose 300 mln dlrs of tariffs on imports of Japanese electronics goods on April 17 , in retaliation for Japan 's alleged failure to stick to a pact not to sell semiconductors on world markets at below cost . Unofficial Japanese estimates put the impact of the tariffs at 10 billion dlrs and spokesmen for major electronics firms said they would virtually halt exports of products hit by the new taxes . " We would n't be able to do business ," said a spokesman for leading Japanese electronics firm Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd <MC.T> . " If the tariffs remain in place for any length of time beyond a few months it will mean the complete erosion of exports ( of goods subject to tariffs ) to the U.S. , " said Tom Murtha , a stock analyst at the Tokyo office of broker <James Capel and Co> . In Taiwan , businessmen and officials are also worried . " We are aware of the seriousness of the U.S. Threat against Japan because it serves as a warning to us ," said a senior Taiwanese trade official who asked not to be named . Taiwan had a trade trade surplus of 15.6 billion dlrs last year , 95 pct of it with the U.S. The surplus helped swell Taiwan 's foreign exchange reserves to 53 billion dlrs , among the world 's largest . " We must quickly open our markets , remove trade barriers and cut import tariffs to allow imports of U.S. Products , if we want to defuse problems from possible U.S. Retaliation , " said Paul Sheen , chairman of textile exporters <Taiwan Safe Group > . A senior official of South Korea 's trade promotion association said the trade dispute between the U.S. And Japan might also lead to pressure on South Korea , whose chief exports are similar to those of Japan . Last year South Korea had a trade surplus of 7.1 billion dlrs with the U.S. , Up from 4.9 billion dlrs in 1985 . In Malaysia , trade officers and businessmen said tough curbs against Japan might allow hard-hit producers of semiconductors in third countries to expand their sales to the U.S. In Hong Kong , where newspapers have alleged Japan has been selling belo w-cost semiconductors , some electronics manufacturers share that view . But other businessmen said such a short-term commercial advantage would be outweighed by further U.S. Pressure to block imports . " That is a very short-term view , " said Lawrence Mills , director-general of the Federation of Hong Kong Industry . " If the whole purpose is to prevent imports , one day it will be extended to other sources . Much more serious for Hong Kong is the disadvantage of action restraining trade , " he said . The U.S. Last year was Hong Kong 's biggest export market , accounting for over 30 pct of domestically produced exports . The Australian government is awaiting the outcome of trade talks between the U.S. And Japan with interest and concern , Industry Minister John Button said in Canberra last Friday . " This kind of deterioration in trade relations between two countries which are major trading partners of ours is a very serious matter , " Button said . He said Australia 's concerns centred on coal and beef , Australia 's two largest exports to Japan and also significant U.S. Exports to that country . Meanwhile U.S.-Japanese diplomatic manoeuvres to solve the trade stand-off continue . Japan 's ruling Liberal Democratic Party yesterday outlined a package of economic measures to boost the Japanese economy . The measures proposed include a large supplementary budget and record public works spending in the first half of the financial year . They also call for stepped-up spending as an emergency measure to stimulate the economy despite Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone 's avowed fiscal reform program . Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Michael Smith and Makoto Kuroda , Japan 's deputy minister of International Trade and Industry ( MITI ) , are due to meet in Washington this week in an effort to end the dispute . REUTER 
<TEST	14828	grain>
showed vermin consume between seven and 12 pct of China 's grain stocks , the China Daily said . It also said that each year 1.575 mln tonnes , or 25 pct , of China 's fruit output are left to rot , and 2.1 mln tonnes , or up to 30 pct , of its vegetables . The paper blamed the waste on inadequate storage and bad preservation methods . It said the government had launched a national programme to reduce waste , calling for improved technology in storage and preservation , and greater production of additives . The paper gave no further details . REUTER 
<TEST	14829	crude>
Industry ( MITI ) will revise its long-term energy supply/demand outlook by August to meet a forecast downtrend in Japanese energy demand , ministry officials said . MITI is expected to lower the projection for primary energy supplies in the year 2000 to 550 mln kilolitres ( kl ) from 600 mln , they said . The decision follows the emergence of structural changes in Japanese industry following the rise in the value of the yen and a decline in domestic electric power demand . MITI is planning to work out a revised energy supply/demand outlook through deliberations of committee meetings of the Agency of Natural Resources and Energy , the officials said . They said MITI will also review the breakdown of energy supply sources , including oil , nuclear , coal and natural gas . Nuclear energy provided the bulk of Japan 's electric power in the fiscal year ended March 31 , supplying an estimated 27 pct on a kilowatt/hour basis , followed by oil ( 23 pct ) and liquefied natural gas ( 21 pct ) , they noted . REUTER 
<TEST	14832	trade	grain	corn>
billion baht in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.1 billion a year ago , the Business Economics Department said . It said Janunary/M arch imports rose to 65.1 billion baht from 58.7 billion . Thailand 's improved business climate this year resulted in a 27 pct increase in imports of raw materials and semi-finished products . The country 's oil import bill , however , fell 23 pct in the first quarter due to lower oil prices . The department said first quarter exports expanded to 60.6 billion baht from 56.6 billion . Export growth was smaller than expected due to lower earnings from many key commodities including rice whose earnings declined 18 pct , maize 66 pct , sugar 45 pct , tin 26 pct and canned pineapples seven pct . Products registering high export growth were jewellery up 64 pct , clothing 57 pct and rubber 35 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	14839	ship>
Victoria and Western Australia yesterday lifted their ban on foreign-flag ships carrying containers but NSW ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute , shipping sources said . The ban , imposed a week ago over a pay claim , had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels , they said . The pay dispute went before a hearing of the Arbitration Commission today . Meanwhile , disruption began today to cargo handling in the ports of Sydney , Newcastle and Port Kembla , they said . The industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the week of action called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council to protest changes to the state 's workers ' compensation laws . The shipping sources said the various port unions appear to be taking it in turn to work for a short time at the start of each shift and then to walk off . Cargo handling in the ports has been disrupted , with container movements most affected , but has not stopped altogether , they said . They said they could not say how long the disruption will go on and what effect it will have on shipping movements . REUTER 
<TEST	14841	grain	wheat>
Department of Agriculture approved the Continental Grain Co sale of 52,500 tonnes of soft wheat at 89 U.S. Dlrs a tonne C and F from Pacific Northwest to Colombo . They said the shipment was for April 8 to 20 delivery . REUTER 
<TEST	14849	money-fx	interest>
billion marks at today 's tender for a 28-day securities repurchase pact at a fixed rate of 3.80 pct , a central bank spokesman said . Banks , which bid for a total 12.2 billion marks liquidity , will be credited with the funds allocated today and must buy back securities pledged on May 6 . Some 14.9 billion marks will drain from the market today as an earlier pact expires , so the Bundesbank is effectively withdrawing a net 8.1 billion marks from the market with today 's allocation . A Bundesbank spokesman said in answer to enquiries that the withdrawal of funds did not reflect a tightening of credit policy , but was to be seen in the context of plentiful liquidity in the banking system . Banks held an average 59.3 billion marks at the Bundesbank over the first six days of the month , well clear of the likely April minimum reserve requirement of 51 billion marks . The Bundesbank spokesman noted that by bidding only 12.2 billion marks , below the outgoing 14.9 billion , banks themselves had shown they felt they had plenty of liquidity . Dealers said the Bundesbank is keen to prevent too much liquidity accruing in the market , as that would blunt the effectiveness of the security repurchase agreement , its main open-market instrument for steering market interest rates . Two further pacts are likely this month over the next two weeks . The Bundesbank is currently steering call money between 3.6 and 3.8 pct , although short-term fluctuations outside that range are possible , dealers said . REUTER 
<TEST	14858	trade	grain	corn>
U.S. Demands that Japan open its farm products market , will tell U.S. Officials at talks later this month that liberalisation would harm existing U.S. Farm exports to Japan , a senior ministry official said . " Imports from the U.S. Would drop due to active sales drives by other suppliers , " the official , who declined to be named , said . " Japan is the largest customer for U.S. Farm products and it is not reasonable for the U.S. To demand Japan liberalise its farm import market ," he said . Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato has said if the U.S. Insists Japan open its protected rice market it will also open its wheat market , where volume and origin are regulated to protect local farmers . Australia and Canada could then increase their wheat exports as they are more competitive than the U.S. , He said . End-users would also buy other origins , grain traders said . U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng , who is due to visit Japan for talks between April 16-27 , has said he will ask Japan to offer a share of its rice market to U.S. Suppliers and remove quotas on U.S. Beef and citrus imports . Other countries are already cutting into the U.S. Market share here . Australia , the largest beef supplier to Japan , has been trying to boost exports prior to the expiry of a four-year beef accord next March 31 . Imports of U.S. Corn have fallen due to increased sales from China and South America , while Japanese soybean imports from Brazil are expected to rise sharply this year , although the U.S. Will remain the largest supplier . U.S. Feedgrain sales will also drop if Japan opens up its beef imports , since Japan depends almost entirely on feedgrain imports , mainly from the U.S. , Japanese officials said . An indication of the U.S. Position came last December when Under Secretary of Agriculture Daniel Amstutz said Japan has the potential to provide one of the largest boosts to U.S. Agricultural exports , with the beef market alone representing some one billion dlrs in new business . The U.S. Has also asked the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to investigate the legality of Japanese import controls on 12 other farm products , including fruit juices , purees and pulp , tomato juice , ketchup and sauce , pea nuts , prepared beef products and miscellaneous beans . To help calm heated trade relations with the U.S. , Japan 's top business group Keidanren has urged the government to remove residual import restrictions on agricultural products . But Agriculture Minister Kato has ruled out any emotional reaction , and the senior ministry official said the farm issue should not become a scapegoat for trade pressure in the industrial sector . " Japan is the largest buyer of U.S. Farm products , and these issues should not be discussed on the same tabl e , " the official said . REUTER 
<TEST	14861	money-fx	interest>
shortage of around 250 mln stg in the money market today . Among the main factors affecting liquidity , bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 505 mln stg , while bills for repurchase by the market will remove around 194 mln . In addition , a rise in note circulation and bankers ' balances below target will each drain around 110 mln stg . Partly offsetting these outflows , exchequer transactions will add some 690 mln stg to the system today . REUTER 
<TEST	14862	trade>
fast and the government has started taking steps to slow it down , Deputy Prime Minister Kim Mahn-je said . He told a press conference the government planned to increase investment , speed up the opening of the local market to foreign imports and gradually adjust its currency to hold the surplus " at a proper level . " But he said the government would not allow the won to appreciate too much in a short period of time . South Korea has been under pressure from Washington to revalue the won . The U.S. Wants South Korea to cut its trade surplus with the U.S. , Which rose to 7.4 billion dlrs in 1986 from 4.3 billion dlrs in 1985 . Kim , who is also economic planning minister , said prospects were bright for the South Korean economy , but the government would try to hold the current account surplus to around five billion dlrs a year for the next five years . "Our government projections of eight pct GNP growth , five billion dlrs of ( current account ) surplus and 12 pct growth in exports all seemed to be reasonable early this year . But now the surplus is growing faster than we expected , " he said . Trade ministry officials said South Korea 's exports rose 35 pct to 9.34 billion dlrs in the first three months of this year , while imports rose only 8.5 pct to 8.2 billion dlrs . Kim said the swing of South Korea 's current account to a surplus of 4.65 billion dlrs in 1986 from an 890 mln dlr deficit in 1985 was very significant . The surplus enabled the country to reduce its foreign debt last year for the first time . South Korea 's foreign debt , which fell to 44.5 billion dlrs in 1986 from 46.8 billion in 1985 , is still among the largest in Asia . " This huge amount of our foreign debt has been one of the major constraints on our development Last year was a major turning point for the Korean economy ," Kim said . Kim said his government plannned to reduce the ratio of foreign debt to the country 's GNP to about 20 pct in 1991 , from about 50 pct in 1986 . " The government , however , does not want to accelerate reducing the debt by making an excessive trade surplus , " he said . Kim said a sudden rise in the surplus would cause inflation and lead to trade friction with Seoul 's major trading partners , particularly the United States . " We need a surplus because we have to reduce our debt , but we are taking measures to hold the size of the surplus at a proper level , " Kim said . REUTER 
<TEST	14881	trade>
chance of convincing the U.S. To drop threatened trade sanctions , despite the efforts of a Japanese team that left for Washington today . Michael Armacost , Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs , was asked at a press conference whether Japan 's moves to boost its domestic economy and open its markets could persuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on Japanese imports said , and replied " ...It is probably too early for the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to permit the result you have described . " Armacost said the U.S. Hopes Japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports , remove barriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues . " There are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area , but we do not wish those problems to divert attention from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security and political issues , " he said . " The question is whether through cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the ( trade ) imbalance or whether Congress takes action to reduce it through protectionist legislation , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	14890	interest	money-fx>
fund managers redirect capital away from the United States and other traditional markets , analysts said . High short-term interest rates , a bullish stock market and an increasingly stable currency reflect a massive inflow of fresh funds in the last two months , largely from Japanese and U.S. Investors , analysts polled by Reuters said . Fund managers want quality markets to park their cash in and have settled on Australia , Britain and Canada as they diversify from volatile U.S. Dollar instruments , they said . A one percentage point fall in key 10-year bonds rates in the past month , record share prices and a 10-month high for the currency of 0.71 U.S. Dlrs all illustrated the inflow . Official figures on the latest inflow of investment capital are not available , but brokers said they received almost daily inquiries from Japan and the United States . " These people have got trillions of dollars sloshing about and they do n't know what to do with it . Some of that is ending up here with the attraction of high interest rates and reasonable currency stability , " National Australia Bank Ltd economist Brian Hamley said . " There is a 'flight to quality ', " Hamley said . " Australia may not be in the best ( economic ) position , but there are n't too many other countries where you 'd want to put your money . " The stronger Australian dollar was also attracting investors taking advantage of an appreciating currency against the volatility of the U.S. Unit , analysts said . " We 're looking a more favoured market than perhaps the U.S. Where some people would be concerned about the value of the U.S. Dollar , " Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd chief economist Will Buttrose said . " Why not put the money in Australia where entry is cheap and the currency looks stabl e ? " But turning that capital into more permanent productive investment depends on government economic policy , he said . " It will only disappear if people lose confidence in the direction in the economy ," Buttrose said , adding that offshore investors would carefully watch the government 's promised tough economic statement on May 14 . While happy to invest in bonds and other vehicles yielding interest unobtainable elsewhere , fund managers could just as easily reverse the flow particularly the Japanese , who were badly hurt in the past by rapid falls in the Australian dollar and hefty jumps in bond rates , analysts said . " It will remain very edgy money . If something was not to be delivered , if the statement was n't considered tough enough , one might see a substantial outflow , " Buttrose said . Offshore investors are eager to see Australia take tough economic decisions to curb its 100 billion dlr foreign debt and stubborn current account deficit , analysts said . " They are giving us the benefit of the doubt and I think they would like to leave the money here , " Buttrose said . Reserve Bank policy has also reflected the increased interest in investment in Australia and the need to shield Japanese investors from rapid currency fluctuations . Reserve Governor Bob Johnston last week acknowledged an element of targeting the rate against the yen in currency policy when he said authorities could not take their " eyes off the yen " because of the crucial role of Japanese investors . Analysts said they believed the Reserve Bank had worked successfully in recent months to keep the Australian dollar within the range of 100 to 103 yen . Apart from its recovery against a weak U.S. Dollar , the Australian dollar has also risen almost three pct on a trade-weighted basis in the last three weeks . Offshore buying has also played a role in the booming Australian share market . It has followed Wall Street and other markets , but is also setting its own trend in response to the weight of both domestic and offshore funds pouring into equities , particularly in the gold sector . The key all ordinaries index rose to a record 1,758.3 today , nearly 20 pct above its level at the end of 1986 , while the gold index has nearly doubled to a record 3,081.0 in the same period . The property sector is also sought after , with Japanese companies that have invested heavily in the United States in recent years turning their attention to undervalued real estate , particularly in the tourism field . Analysts pointed to the recent sale of Sydney 's five-star Regent Hotel to Japanese interests for more than 145 mln dlrs as indicative of the type of property being sought . " They think they find good value real estate here which , with long term and fixed capital investment , is the kind of investment Australia needs , " Buttrose added . REUTER 
<TEST	14904	trade>
Industry ( MITI ) Vice Minister Makoto Kuroda leaves for Washington today with data he hopes will refute U.S. Charges Japan has violated a pact on microchip trade . A three-man Japanese trade team is already in Washington laying the groundwork for talks between Kuroda and Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Michael Smith aimed at persuading the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on certain Japanese products . But Kuroda said he is taking no new proposals . " I have nothing in my briefcase except an explanation of the current situation ," Kuroda told the daily newspaper Asahi Shimbun . Kuroda said the U.S. Decision was based on incorrect data and an exaggerated sense of MITI 's power to control market forces . " The U.S. Has excessive expectations . To stabilise supply-demand relations which have been disrupted by excess inventories since 1985 will take some time ," he said . Kuroda also laid part of the blame for low U.S. Chip sales in Japan on a lack of effort by American firms here . He said if he fails in talks tomorrow and Friday to forestall sanctions , he will seek further talks with U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter . U.S. Officials said this week 's talks are unlikely to delay imposition of tariffs . REUTER 
<TEST	14912	trade>
chance of persuading the U.S. to drop threatened trade sanctions , despite the efforts of a Japanese team that left for Washington today . Michael Armacost , Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs , was asked at a press conference whether Japan 's moves to boost its domestic economy and open its markets could persuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on Japanese imports said , and replied " ...It is probably too early for the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to permit the result you have described . " Armacost said the U.S. Hopes Japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports , remove barriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues . " There are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area , but we do not wish those problems to divert attention from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security and political issues , " he said . " The question is whether through cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the ( trade ) imbalance or whether Congress takes action to reduce it through protectionist legislation , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	14913	money-fx>
dollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen , dealers said . The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading house sold dollars , putting pressure on the U.S. Currency , they said . The dollar was also supported by a major electrical consumer goods company , which was a speculative dollar buyer at around 145.25 yen , they added . The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in New York and 145.25 at the close here yesterday . REUTER 
<TEST	14919	money-fx	interest>
money market with 53 mln stg assistance in the morning session . This compares with the bank 's estimate of a shortage in the system of around 300 mln stg which it earlier revised up from 250 mln . The central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 46 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and seven mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	14931	money-fx>
said a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciation of the mark would damage prospects for sustained West German economic growth . In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairs here , Poehl said " It would be an extremely risky policy to aim for a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar to correct the trade deficit . " He said the United States could face a vicious circle of depreciation , inflation and more depreciation if it took that route . Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meet U.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy , accelerating tax cuts , cutting interest rates and tolerating above-target money supply growth . He said he would have been happy to have brought forward five billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 to the beginning of this year , but he said the government faced political constraints getting such measures through the upper house of the West German parliament . But there were also limits to the impact West Germany could accept on exports from a rising mark , he said . Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for about one-third of its gross national product , so a substantial erosion of export markets could not be offset by increasing demand at home . " A further appreciation of the mark could even be an obstacle to further growth ," he said . Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supply growth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation and because external factors , including low oil prices and favourable terms of trade , had given some extra leeway . But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemma over monetary policy . The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct , not the reported negative inflation rates last year , and West Germany was affected more than before by exchange rate developments . " For the time being , we will have to focus our policy more on the external side , and we can live with a more expansionary money supply . But we must be very careful , " he said . He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japan 's trade surpluses , which affected European countries as well as the United States . Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetary officials of major industrialized countries , saying the importance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchange rates had been underestimated . All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about the right level , and that further changes would damage growth , he said . " This was a remarkable change in attitude , especially on the part of our American colleagues , " he said . But he said there was still a danger that the correction of the dollar 's value could overshoot . REUTER 
<TEST	14957	ship>
Victoria and Western Australia yesterday lifted their ban on foreign-flag ships carrying containers but NSW ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute , shipping sources said . The ban , imposed a week ago over a pay claim , had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels , they said . The pay dispute went before a hearing of the Arbitration Commission today . Meanwhile , disruption began today to cargo handling in the ports of Sydney , Newcastle and Port Kembla , they said . The industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the week of action called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council to protest changes to the state 's workers ' compensation laws . Reuter 
<TEST	14959	ship>
general cargo dispute have agreed to appoint an independent chairman , Han Lammers , to preside over future meetings , employers ' spokesman Gerard Zeebregts said . Lammers , Queen 's Commissioner for the province of Flevoland , will not act as a mediator but will draw up an agenda and procedures for meetings between the employers and unions on a work-practice agreement and proposed redundancies . Two months of strikes in the sector began on January 19 in protest at employers ' proposals for 350 redundancies from the 4,000-strong workforce this year . The strikes were called off by the main port union FNV on March 13 following an Amsterdam court 's interim injunction against the redundancies on procedural grounds . The court is due to make a final ruling on May 7 but Zeebregts said he expected the judgment to go against the employers and they were therefore very likely to restart the complicated legal redundancy procedures in the near future . Meanwhile , the dispute over a new work-practice agreement in the port 's grain sector continued , with 30 maintenance workers on strike , although loading was not affected , a spokesman for Graan Elevator Mij , the largest employer in the sector , said . The employers have written to the union asking it to reconsider its position and a meeting of union members has been called for tomorrow . Reuter 
<TEST	14964	money-fx	interest>
market with further help totalling 166 mln stg during the afternoon . In band one , it bought 31 mln stg of treasury bills and three mln stg of bank bills at 9-7/8 pct , while in band two it bought 69 mln stg of bank bills at 9-13/16 pct . In addition , it bought 63 mln stg of band three bank bills at 9-3/4 pct . This brings the total assistance by the Bank so far today to 219 mln stg against a liquidity shortage it has estimated at around 300 mln stg . REUTER 
<TEST	14987	money-fx>
Stoltenberg said today 's meetings of major industrial countries would look at ways of strengthening the Paris accord on stabilizing foreign exchange rates . Stoltenberg told journalists he saw no fundamental weakness of the February 22 agreement of the Group of Five countries and Canada to keep exchange rates near the then-current levels . But he declined to say what measures would be discussed ahead of a communique of the Group of Seven ministers later today . Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said the importance of the Paris agreement , also known as the Louvre accord , had been underestimated . Stoltenberg said there is greater agreement now among major countries than six months ago , at the time of the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank , marked by sharp discord between the United States and its major trading partners . " There is no fundamental weakness of the Paris accord , " he said . " We will be looking at ways of strengthening it , but I do not want to discuss that here . Stoltenberg said the Louvre agreement was working despite a " slight firming " of the yen against the dollar . And Poehl noted that the dollar/mark parity was unchanged since February 22 without the Bundesbank having had to sell marks to support the dollar . " The Louvre agreement has been honored by the market ," he said . Poehl said West Germany had lived up to its side of the bargain in Paris by preparing the way for tax cuts to be accelerated as a way of stimulating growth . Poehl said , however , that Japan had not yet fulfilled its pledges for economic stimulation . " And we will have to see if the United States is able to do what they promised in Paris on reducing the budget deficit and get it through Congres s , " he added . Stoltenberg reiterated West German concern about a further fall in the dollar , noting that the mark was up 85 pct against the dollar and nearly 20 pct on a trade-weighted basis . " You cannot expect that to go unnoticed in an economy . And it is not just a German problem , it is a European problem , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	15033	grain	corn>
plans to follow last week 's increase in the producer price of maize with a hike in the retail price of maize meal , an official of the ruling party said . Last December , a 120 pct increase in the consumer price for refined maize meal , a Zambian staple , led to food riots in which at least 15 people died . That price increase , which President Kenneth Kaunda later revoked , followed pressure by the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) to reduce the government 's subsidy bill . However , if the producer price rise , from 6.10 dlrs to 8.67 dlrs per 90-kg bag , is not accompanied by a retail price increase , the government will have to spend more on subsidies , a practice discouraged by the IMF. " There is no way out but to raise the subsidy levels of meal . It ( the government ) would have to choose between the demands of the IMF and those of the people ," a Ministry of Agriculture economist said . Reuter 
<TEST	15043	grain	corn	wheat>
their yield estimates for the 1986/87 coarse grain crop downward in the week to yesterday after the heavy rains at the end of March and beginning of April , trade sources said . They said sunflower , maize and sorghum production estimates had been reduced despite some later warm , dry weather , which has allowed a return to harvesting in some areas . However , as showers fell intermittently after last weekend , producers feared another spell of prolonged and intense rain could cause more damage to crops already badly hit this season . Rains in the middle of last week reached an average of 27 millimetres in parts of Buenos Aires province , 83 mm in Cordoba , 41 in Santa Fe , 50 in Entre Rios and Misiones , 95 in Corrientes , eight in Chaco and 35 in Formosa . There was no rainfall in the same period in La Pampa . Producers feared continued damp conditions could produce rotting and lead to still lower yield estimates for all the crops , including soybean . However , as the lands began drying later in the week harvesting advanced considerably , reaching between 36 and 40 pct of the area sown in the case of sunflower . Deterioration of the sunflower crop evident in harvested material in Cordoba , La Pampa and Buenos Aires forced yield estimates per hectare to be adjusted down again . The season 's sunflowerseed production is now forecast at 2.1 mln to 2.3 mln tonnes , against 2.2 mln to 2.4 mln forecast last week and down 43.9 to 48.8 pct on the 1985/86 record of 4.1 mln . Area sown to sunflowers was two to 2.2 mln hectares , 29.9 to 36.3 pct below the record 3.14 mln hectares last season . Maize harvesting has also reached 36 to 40 pct of the area sown . It is near completion in Cordoba and Santa Fe and will begin in La Pampa and southern Buenos Aires later in April . Production estimates for maize were down from last week at 9.5 mln to 9.8 mln tonnes , against 9.6 mln to 9.9 mln estimated previously . This is 22.2 to 23.4 pct below the 12.4 mln to 12.6 mln tonnes estimated by private sources for the 1985/86 crop and 21.9 to 25.8 pct down on the official figure of 12.8 mln tonnes . Maize was sown on 3.58 mln to 3.78 mln hectares , two to seven pct down on last season 's 3.85 mln . Sorghum was harvested on 23 to 25 pct of the area sown in Cordoba , Santa Fe and Chaco . Harvest will start in La Pampa and Buenos Aires in mid-April . The total area sown was 1.23 mln to 1.30 mln hectares , 10.3 to 15.2 pct down on the 1.45 mln sown last season . The new forecast for the sorghum crop is 2.9 mln to 3.2 mln tonnes compared with three mln to 3.3 mln forecast last week , and is 23.8 to 29.3 pct down on last season 's 4.1 mln to 4.2 mln tonne crop . The soybean crop for this season was not adjusted , remaining at a record 7.5 mln to 7.7 mln tonnes , up 4.2 to 5.5 pct on the 7.2 mln to 7.3 mln estimated by private sources for 1985/86 and 5.6 to 8.5 pct higher than the official figure of 7.1 mln . The area sown to soybeans this season was a record 3.7 mln to 3.8 mln hectares , 10.8 to 13.8 pct up on the record 3.34 mln sown in 1985/86 . The soybean crop is showing excessive moisture in some areas and producers fear they may discover more damage . Some experimental harvesting was carried out in Santa Fe on areas making up only about one pct of the total crop but details on this were not available . Preparation of the fields for the 1987/88 wheat crop , which will be sown between May and August or September , has so far not been as intense as in previous years . Reuter 
<TEST	15048	money-fx>
nations arrived at the U.S. Treasury main building to begin a meeting of the Group of Five . Officials seen arriving by Reuter correspondents included West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl , French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur and his central banker Jacques de Larosiere . Also seen arriving were Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa and Japan 's central bank governor Satoshi Sumita and British Chancellor of the Exchequer and central bank governor Robin Leigh Pemberton . There was no immediate sign of Italian or Canadian officials . Monetary sources have said a fully blown meeting of the Group of Seven is expected to begin around 3 p.m. local time ( 1900 gm t ) and last at least until 6 p.m. ( 2200 gm t ) , when a communique is expected to be issued . Italian sources said Italian acting Finance Minister Giovanni Goria met Treasury Secretary James Baker last night . At those talks Baker apparently convinced Goria , who declined to attend the February meeting of the Group of Seven in Paris , that Italy would participate fully in any meaningful decisions . Reuter 
<TEST	15049	interest>
intervene in the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements , economists said . Economists expect the Fed to execute 2.0-2.5 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset pressures from the end of the two-week bank reserve maintenance period today . Some also look for a permanent reserve injection to offset seasonal pressures via an outright purchase of bills or coupons this afternoon . The Federal funds rate opened at 6-3/8 pct and remained at that level , up from yesterday 's 6.17 pct average . Reuter 
<TEST	15063	crude	acq>
dollar and a plant utilization rate approaching 90 pct will propel the streamlined U.S. petrochemical industry to record profits this year , with growth expected through at least 1990 , major company executives predicted . This bullish outlook for chemical manufacturing and an industrywide move to shed unrelated businesses has prompted GAF Corp <G AF> , privately-held Cain Chemical Inc , and other firms to aggressively seek acquisitions of petrochemical plants . Oil companies such as Ashland Oil Inc <AS H> , the Kentuck y-based oil refiner and marketer , are also shopping for money-making petrochemical businesses to buy . " I see us poised at the threshold of a golden period , " said Paul Oreffice , chairman of giant Dow Chemical Co <DO W> , adding , " There 's no major plant capacity being added around the world now . The whole game is bringing out new products and improving the old ones . " Analysts say the chemical industry 's biggest customers , automobile manufacturers and home builders that use a lot of paints and plastics , are expected to buy quantities this year . U.S. petrochemical plants are currently operating at about 90 pct capacity , reflecting tighter supply that could hike product prices by 30 to 40 pct this year , said John Dosher , managing director of Pace Consultants Inc of Houston . Demand for some products such as styrene could push profit margins up by as much as 300 pct , he said . Oreffice , speaking at a meeting of chemical engineers in Houston , said Dow would easily top the 741 mln dlrs it earned last year and predicted it would have the best year in its history . In 1985 , when oil prices were still above 25 dlrs a barrel and chemical exports were adversely affected by the strong U.S. dollar , Dow had profits of 58 mln dlrs . " I believe the entire chemical industry is headed for a record year or close to it , " Oreffice said . GAF chairman Samuel Heyman estimated that the U.S. chemical industry would report a 20 pct gain in profits during 1987 . Last year , the domestic industry earned a total of 13 billion dlrs , a 54 pct leap from 1985 . The turn in the fortunes of the once-sickly chemical industry has been brought about by a combination of luck and planning , said Pace 's John Dosher . Dosher said last year 's fall in oil prices made feedstocks dramatically cheaper and at the same time the American dollar was weakening against foreign currencies . That helped boost U.S. chemical exports . Also helping to bring supply and demand into balance has been the gradual market absorption of the extra chemical manufacturing capacity created by Middle Eastern oil producers in the early 1980s . Finally , virtually all major U.S. chemical manufacturers have embarked on an extensive corporate restructuring program to mothball inefficient plants , trim the payroll and eliminate unrelated businesses . The restructuring touched off a flurry of friendly and hostile takeover attempts . GAF , which made an unsuccessful attempt in 1985 to acquire Union Carbide Corp <UK> , recently offered three billion dlrs for Borg Warner Corp <BOR> , a Chicago manufacturer of plastics and chemicals . Another industry powerhouse , W.R. Grace <GRA> has divested its retailing , restaurant and fertilizer businesses to raise cash for chemical acquisitions . But some experts worry that the chemical industry may be headed for trouble if companies continue turning their back on the manufacturing of staple petrochemical commodities , such as ethylene , in favor of more profitable specialty chemicals that are custom-designed for a small group of buyers . " Companies like DuPont <DD> and Monsanto Co <MTC > spent the past two or three years trying to get out of the commodity chemical business in reaction to how badly the market had deteriorated , " Dosher said . " But I think they will eventually kill the margins on the profitable chemicals in the niche market . " Some top chemical executives share the concern . " The challenge for our industry is to keep from getting carried away and repeating past mistakes , " GAF 's Heyman cautioned . " The shift from commodity chemicals may be ill-advised . Specialty businesses do not stay special long . " Houston-based Cain Chemical , created this month by the Sterling investment banking group , believes it can generate 700 mln dlrs in annual sales by bucking the industry trend . Chairman Gordon Cain , who previously led a leveraged buyout of Dupont 's Conoco Inc 's chemical business , has spent 1.1 billion dlrs since January to buy seven petrochemical plants along the Texas Gulf Coast . The plants produce only basic commodity petrochemicals that are the building blocks of specialty products . " This kind of commodity chemical business will never be a glamorous , high-margin business ," Cain said , adding that demand is expected to grow by about three pct annually . Garo Armen , an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds , said chemical makers have also benefitted by increasing demand for plastics as prices become more competitive with aluminum , wood and steel products . Armen estimated the upturn in the chemical business could last as long as four or five years , provided the U.S. economy continues its modest rate of growth . Reuter 
<TEST	15096	interest>
Government securities market to arrange overnight System repurchase agreements , a Fed spokesman said . Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reserves to the banking system . Reuter 
<TEST	15097	grain	wheat>
Public Law 480 for approximately 52,500 tonnes of various wheats in bulk , an agent for the country said . The agent said Honduras is seeking U.S. no . 2 or better northern spring/D NS , with 14 pct protein minimum and 13 pct moisture maximum , and U.S. no . 2 or better hard red winter , with 12 pct protein minimum and 13 pct moisture maximum . The agent said NS/D NS laydays include July 1-10 for 7,500-9,500 tonnes , Aug 1-10 for 8,000-10,000 tonnes , and Sept 15-25 for 12,500-14,500 tonnes . HRW laydays include June 20-30 on 5,000-7,000 tonnes , July 15-25 for 6,500-8,500 tonnes , and September 15-25 for 7,000-9,000 tonnes . Offers are due by 1550 hrs EDT , April 13 , and will remain valid until 1000 hrs EDT , April 14 , the agent said . Reuter 
<TEST	15106	grain	corn>
grain crop are likely to result in losses of about five mln tonnes , an Agriculture Ministry spokesman said . Ministry spokesman Leonardo Brito , speaking from Brasilia , told Reuters he believed that about five mln tonnes of this year 's estimated crop of 65 mln tonnes would be lost . He said part of this would be the normal loss inevitable in harvesting , but that most of it would stem from storage problems . Brazil has a storage capacity of 66 mln tonnes , theoretically sufficient for the crop . But Brito said that the storage capacity was badly distributed . The states of Sao Paulo , Parana and Rio Grande do Sul had between them 70 pct of the nation 's capacity , but were responsible for only 50 to 60 pct of production . The biggest problems are concentrated in the Centre-West growing regions , where rising production has outpaced storage capacity . Brito said the Centre-West , whose crops include soya and maize , had between 30 and 40 pct of the nation 's grains production but only 20 pct of its storage space . In addition to the poor distribution of storage units , there is the problem that too much of the capacity is geared to storing grain in sacks , while not enough is suitable for storing loose grain , Brito said . Finally , there is a shortage of lorries to transport the crops . The sheer scale of the task in transporting the record crop has been evident from television reports , which have shown enormous queues of lorries waiting outside granaries . Reuter 
<TEST	15132	grain	wheat>
100,000 tonnes of French soft wheat for delivery between May and August and which would be covered by the French export credit agency , COFACE , export credits , traders said here . No official tender has been announced yet by Tunisia , they said . France has sold a total of 200,000 tonnes of soft wheat to Tunisia since the begining of the current campaign which was covered by COFACE export credits . Of this amount , a total of 150,000 tonnes was exported by March 1 , they said . Reuter 
<TEST	15154	trade>
open talks with American trade negotiators in a last-ditch effort to avert new high U.S. tariffs to be imposed on a wide variety of Japanese electronic exports . Makoto Kuroda , vice minister of Japan 's Ministry of International Trade and Industry ( MITI ) , is to hold two days of meetings with the Deputy U.S. Trade Representative , Michael Smith , and the Under Secretary of Commerce , Bruce Smart . The new tariffs , to go into effect on April 17 , are in retaliation for Japan 's failure to adhere to an agreement to end dumping semiconductors in world markets at below cost and to open its home market to U.S. semiconductor shipments . They are to be imposed on goods which use semiconductors , including television and audio equipment and computers . Both U.S. and Japanese officials have said there was little likelihood the talks would do anything to avert the 100 pct duties on 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese shipments . President Reagan announced the planned tariffs on March 27 after he said that close monitoring of the July 1986 U.S.-Japanese semiconductor pact convinced U.S. officials that Japan was not honoring the agreement . In making the annoucement , Reagan said " I am committed to the full enforcement of our trade agreements designed to provide American industry with free and fair trade . " Trade analysts said his move was aimed as much at Japan 's semiconductor trade practices , which are said to have injured the U.S. semiconductor industry , as Congress , which has complained about presidential timidity on trade issues . Congressional Democrats have pledged to enact aggressive trade laws to counter what they contend has been Reagan 's inaction to redress the growing U.S. trade deficit , which last year reached 169.8 billion dlrs . About one-third of the deficit was with Japan . Reagan said there were recent signs Japan was beginning to adhere to the pact and that was why he was not terminating it . Kuroda said on leaving Tokyo today he had no new proposals but did have an explanation of the semiconductor situation . He told the daily newspaper Ashai Shimbun that Reagan 's decision was based on inaccurate data and an exaggerated sense of MITI 's power to control Japanese traders . " The United States has excessive expectations. , " he said . To stabilize supply-demand relations which have been disrupted by excess inventories since 1985 will take some time . " He also said that U.S. firms had not been aggressive enough in trying to sell in the Japanese market . Reuter 
<TEST	15171	trade>
Fitzwater said U.S. trade sanctions against Japan were likely take effect on April 17 in spite of a " full court press " by Japanese officials to avoid them . " All indications are they will take effect , " he said . " I would say Japan is applying the full court press They certainly are putting both feet forward in terms of explaining their position , " Fitzwater told reporters . He noted high level meetings on the trade dispute are underway here but said , " I do n't think there 's anything I can report and I do n't believe there 's been any official movement . " REUTER 
<TEST	15200	crude>
Greece , including rights on the continental shelf in the Aegean Sea , should be solved through negotiations . A Foreign Ministry statement said the latest crisis between the two NATO members stemmed from the continental shelf dispute and an agreement on this issue would effect the security , economy and other rights of both countries . "As the issue is basicly political , a solution can only be found by bilateral negotiations , " the statement said . Greece has repeatedly said the issue was legal and could be solved at the International Court of Justice . The two countries approached armed confrontation last month after Greece announced it planned oil exploration work in the Aegean and Turkey said it would also search for oil . A face-off was averted when Turkey confined its research to territorrial waters . " The latest crises created an historic opportunity to solve the disputes between the two countrie s , " the Foreign Ministry statement said . Turkey 's ambassador in Athens , Nazmi Akiman , was due to meet Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou today for the Greek reply to a message sent last week by Turkish Prime Minister Turgut Ozal . The contents of the message were not disclosed . Reuter 
<TEST	15212	money-fx	interest>
interest rates suggests that there is scope for further declines in money market rates , but the Federal Reserve is unlikely to promote such a drop as long as the dollar remains volatile , said J.P. Morgan and Co Inc chairman Lewis Preston . He said in response to a reporter 's question after the bank 's annual meeting that money market rates could decline further but , " I do n't think the Fed is going to encourage that as long as the exchange markets are as volatile as they are . " On the other hand , he said that , barring a collapse of the dollar , he did not see rates going much higher . He said that Morgan 's recent rise in its prime lending rate was " purely a reflection of an increase in a whole spectrum of rates . " Preston reiterated earlier company forecasts that the U.S. economy should show roughly 2.5 to three pct real growth this year . He also said that as a consequence of the dollar 's decline and oil price rises , inflation would rise " moderately " to a 3.5 to four pct rate in 1987 . Reuter 
<TEST	15223	trade>
Tariffs on Japanese electronic goods would likely be imposed as scheduled on April 17 , despite an all-out effort by Japan to avoid them . Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater made the remark one day before U.S. And Japanese officials are to meet under the emergency provisions of a July 1986 semiconductor pact to discuss trade and the punitive tariffs . Fitzwater said " I would say Japan is applying the full-court press ...They certainly are putting both feet forward in terms of explaining their position . " But he added that " all indications are they ( the tariffs ) will take effect . " Reuter 
<TEST	15230	crude>
Iranian forces out of positions they had initially occupied when they launched a new offensive near the southern port of Basra early yesterday . A High Command communique said Iraqi troops had won a significant victory and were continuing to advance . Iraq said it had foiled a three-pronged thrust some 10 km ( six miles ) from Bas ra , but admitted the Iranians had occupied ground held by the Mohammed al-Qassem unit , one of three divisions attacked . The communique said Iranian Revolutionary Guards were under assault from warplanes , helicopter gunships , heavy artillery and tanks . "Our forces are continuing their advance until they purge the last foothold " occupied by the Iranians , it said . ( Iran said its troops had killed or wounded more than 4,000 Iraqis and were stabilising their new positions . ) The Baghdad communique said Iraqi planes also destroyed oil installations at Iran 's southwestern Ahvaz field during a raid today . It denied an Iranian report that an Iraqi jet was shot down . Iraq also reported a naval battle at the northern tip of the Gulf . Iraqi naval units and forces defending an offshore terminal sank six Iranian out of 28 Iranian boats attempting to attack an offshore terminal , the communique said . Reuter 
<TEST	15234	money-fx>
central bankers of the Group of Five ended after nearly three and a half hours . West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson declined to comment on the meeting as they emerged from the U.S. Treasury . A European monetary official said the ministers of the Group of Seven countries would gather at about three p.m. local ( 1900 GMT ) at the Treasury . Reuter 
<TEST	15238	crude>
proved reserves fell to 511 mln barrels of oil equivalent at the end of 1986 from 555 mln barrels reported in 1985 . In its newly released annual report , Union Texas said it replaced about 71 pct of its production of 56 mln barrels of oil equivalent last year after taking into account the sale of 27 mln barrels of U.S. reserves . Union Texas , the nation 's largest independent oil and gas producer based on revenues , is a privately-held company owned by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Co and Allied-Signal Inc <ALD> . The Houston-based company said it lost 57.5 mln dlrs on 1.26 billion dlrs in sales last year , compared to profits of 165 mln dlrs on 2.04 billion dlrs in sales in 1985 . Union Texas said it received an average of 13.35 dlrs per barrel for its international oil production and 2.99 dlrs per mcf for its foreign natural gas sales . The majority of the company 's total energy production is in the United Kingdom , Indonesia and Pakistan . In the United States , Union Texas said it completed evaluation work on its oil find in Alaska 's Colville Delta area . " Although significant oil reserves were confirmed , development of this discovery will not be economical without substantially higher prices , " the company said . Union Texas said it planned to spend about 42 mln dlrs over the next two years to develop its Eugene Island Block 371 in the Gulf of Mexico . In 1987 , the company said it budgeted 178 mln dlrs for capital spending , less than half of the amount spent in 1985 and down from 199 mln dlrs budgeted last year . Union Texas also said it would seek acquisitions of oil and gas properties as well as petrochemical-related businesses . Reuter 
<TEST	15244	crude>
oil annually from Iran under an agreement reached in Tehran today , the Iranian news agency IRNA reported . The agency , received in London , said the accord was reached between Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh and a visiting Ghanaian delegation headed by Foreign Minister Obed Asamoah . IRNA said that under the agreement , Iran will also provide technical and scientific assistance in manpower training and oil exploitation , production and refining . Reuter 
<TEST	15253	money-fx>
bankers of leading industrial nations reconvened here this afternoon . Canadian Finance Minister Michael Wilson said on entering the meeting the ministers would review the Paris agreement . Asked if he was satisfied with West German and Japanese stimulus , Wilson replied , " They could do a little more . " French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur , meanwhile , confirmed there would be a communique at the end of the meeting . Finance ministers and central bankers of Britain , FRance , Canada and West Germany were seen by Reuter correspondents returning to a Treasury building . Japanese officials and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl did not appear to have left the building at the end of earlier Group of Five talks which broke up around 2 p.m. local time ( 1800 gm t ) . There was no sign , however , of the Italian delegation whose position was thrown into question this morning by the resignation of the Christian Democratic wing of Italy 's Socialist-led government . European monetary officials said later that the Italian delegation was inside the building . This meant that a full blown meeting of the Group of Seven was in progress . Reuter 
<TEST	15271	grain	wheat>
accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 12,500 tonnes of wheat flour to Iraq , the U.S. AGriculture Department said . The bonus awarded was 113.0 dlrs per tonne and will be paid to Peavey Company in the form of commodities from CCC stocks . The wheat flour is for delivery May 15-June 15 , 1987 , the department said . An additional 162,500 tonnes of wheat flour are still available to Iraq under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced January 7 , 1987 , USDA said . Reuter 
<TEST	15273	grain	wheat>
about 200,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat under an existing PL-480 agreement , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . It may buy the wheat , valued at 22.0 mln dlrs , between April 15 and August 31 , 1987 , and ship it from U.S. ports by September 30 , the department said . Reuter 
<TEST	15287	grain	corn>
mln tonnes of U.S. corn in the past six months close to double last year 's total indicates that imports from the United States , as well as total imports are set for a dramatic jump , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . In its World Production and Trade Report , the department said total South Korea corn imports for the 1986/87 season ( Oct-Sept ) are estimated at 4.3 mln tonnes , with about 3.4 mln tonnes from the United States . During the 1985/86 season , imports totaled only 1.3 mln tonnes of U.S. corn out of a total of 3.6 mln tonnes . Ite appears the Koreans are shifting back to U.S. corn in light of competitive U.S. prices and uncertain supplies from China , Argentina and South Africa , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	15303	grain>
seeking public comments on the question of adjusting the Commodity Credit Corporation 's ( CCC ) discount and premium schedules to improve the quality of grain it accepts as loan collateral or under price support programs . The premiums and discounts schedule are based on quality factors such as moisture content and kernel damage . The schedule stipulates the premiums and discounts used for valuing grain the CCC accepts or purchases during the year . The department said it is possible that producers could be encouraged to delivery higher quality grain to CCC by adjusting the premiums and discounts . Comments are due by April 24 and a report to Congress is required by law by May 10 . Reuter 
<TEST	15310	interest>
interest rates this year to sustain world economic growth , First Boston Corp managing director Albert Wojnilower said . As much as the Fed would like to take a tough line against inflation , it cannot act to slow the growth of credit without subverting national U.S. economic policy . "On selected occasions when the dollar seems steady , and , because the trade deficit is not responding , the United States decided to push Germany and Japan harder to meet their commitments to economic growth , the Federal Reserve will do its part by moving rates down , " Wojnilower said in a report . " Justifiably not anticipating either a recession or seriously higher interest rates , securities market participants have seen little to fear , " Wojnilower said . He said last week 's " hiccup " in money and currency rates and bond and stock prices was probably caused by Japanese window dressing for March 31 end-of-fiscal-year accounts . Wojnilower said the U.S. probably enjoyed above-average economic growth in the first quarter . However , the pick-up seems to reflect an unsustainable pace of inventory building and the prospect for the full year is still for real gross national product growth of about 2-1/2 pct , he said . Reuter 
<TEST	15313	trade>
flowing in and out of the country in an attempt to appease concerns in the U.S. over the high level of Canadian steel exports , Trade Minister Pat Carney said . " To help maintain our open access to the U.S. steel market , the government is taking further action to ensure we have more accurate data on exports and imports and that Canada is not used as a backdoor to the U.S. market by offshore suppliers , " Carney said . Carney also said Canadian companies were being asked to exercise prudence in the U.S. market and both countries were considering establishing a joint commission to study the growing steel problem . Carney told the House of Commons she will soon announce an amendment to the Exports and Imports Permits Act to set up the monitoring program . Canadian steel shipments to the U.S. have risen to 5.7 pct cent of the U.S. market in recent months , almost double the level just two years ago , Canadian trade officials said . The increase in Canadian shipments comes at a time of growing anger in the U.S. over rising steel imports from several countries in the face of a decline in the domestic steel industry . Some U.S. lawmakers have proposed Canada 's share of the American market be limited to 2.4 pct . Reuter 
<TEST	15322	crude>
legislation to lift a ban on new construction of natural gas-fired power plants and other large industrial gas-burning plants . The bill , sponsored by Senate Energy Committee chairman Bennett Johnston , also repeals mandatory incremental pricing of natural gas which was designed to protect residential consumers from major price increases by forcing some industrial users to pay higher than market prices . " This legislation will open up new natural gas markets , " the Lousiana Democrat said . The gas restrictions were enacted in 1978 in response to a shortage of natural gas and predictions of higher prices . " Now both oil and gas prices are severely depressed , " Johnston said . In a compromise with coal producers , the bill requires new baseload electric powerplants be designed to accomodate modifications necessary to burning coal or another alternate fuel . Reuter 
<TEST	15341	grain	corn	wheat>
currently discussing an amendment to a PL 480 agreement signed with Morocco on January 22 , but the mix of commodities under the amendment has not been determined , a U.S. Agriculture Department official said . The official noted the agreement signed in January provided for the supply of about 55,000 tonnes of vegetable oil , 55,000 tonnes of corn and 126,000 tonnes of wheat , all for delivery during the current fiscal year , ending this September 30 . No purchase authorizations for the commodities provided in the January agreement have been announced by the department . Reuter 
<TEST	15344	crude>
primary storage were unchanged in the week ended April three at 106.9 mln barrels , the Energy Information Administration ( EIA ) said . In its weekly petroleum status report , the Department of Energy agency said gasoline stocks were off 200,000 barrels in the week to 248.1 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocks rose 6.3 mln barrels to 335.8 mln . The EIA said residual fuel stocks fell 100,000 barrels to 38.1 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve ( SPR ) rose 1.1 mln barrels to 520.0 mln . The total of all crude , refined product and SPR stocks rose 9.4 mln barrels to 1,561.1 , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	15351	crude>
products supplied fell 2.6 pct in the four weeks ended April three to 15.73 mln barrels per day ( bpd ) from 16.16 mln in the same period a year ago , the Energy Information Administration ( EIA ) said . In its weekly petroleum status report , the Energy Department agency said distillate demand was off 7.9 pct in the period to 2.90 mln bpd from 3.15 mln a year earlier . Gasoline demand averaged 6.76 mln bpd , off 3.1 pct from 6.98 mln last year , while residual fuel demand was 1.15 mln bpd , off 16.9 pct from 1.39 mln , the EIA said . So far this year , distillate demand fell 2.3 pct to 3.20 mln bpd from 3.28 mln in 1986 , gasoline demand was 6.63 mln bpd , off 0.3 pct from 6.65 mln , and residual fuel demand fell 4.9 pct to 1.35 mln bpd from 1.42 mln , the EIA said . Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.40 mln bpd , off 7.6 pct from 9.09 mln a year ago , while gross crude imports averaged 3.92 mln bpd , up 27.1 pct from 3.08 mln , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	15352	trade>
pleased with congressional moves to trim next year 's federal budget deficit but believe the actions will do little to help improve the U.S. trade deficit or buoy the economy . The House of Representatives is expected to vote tomorrow to approve a trillion-dollar budget blueprint for the coming fiscal year that reduces the deficit by 38 billion dlrs . Similarly , the Senate Budget Committee has approved a plan that would cut federal red ink by about 37 billion dlrs next year . " In terms of the economy , 37-38 billion dlrs is infinitesimal , so cuts of this magnitude will have little impact on the economy and the trade deficit , " said Stanley Collander , a Touche Ross federal budget policy analyst . " At best , it will have a small positive effect , " Collander said in an interview . Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker has repeatedly told Congress that cutting federal red ink would go a long way to help reduce the massive trade deficit and also help ease some of the downward pressure on the value of the dollar . The U.S. government has attempted to remedy the trade imbalance by driving down the value of the dollar . But Volcker has warned that a further fall in the dollar 's value is fraught with danger . Such a decline , he has said , could refuel inflation as imported goods become more expensive and chase away foreign capital needed to finance the federal budget deficit . In addition , in February , U.S. officials meeting with other major industrialized nations in Paris agreed that the value of the dollar had dropped enough and that world exchange rates should be stabilized at around current levels . As part of that agreement , Japan and West Germany agreed to take steps to stimulate their economies and the United States agreed to cut its budget deficit . The alternative to driving down the dollar any further as a way to deal with the trade deficit , Volcker said recently , is to reduce U.S. consumption , particularly federal spending . " If you do n't deal with the budget deficit , everything else you do is going to be counterproductive , " Volcker said in recent testimony before the Senate Banking Committee . Volcker also said he would prefer to further tighten the government 's purse strings than have the Fed tighten the credit supply if action was needed to fight inflationary pressures or to assure the continued flow of foreign capital into the United States . Analysts say that Fed tightening now could choke off the current modest economic expansion and threaten a recession . Kemper Financial Services economist John Silvia stressed that any deficit reduction was better than none . But he said the size of the cuts under consideration were not enough to give the Federal Reserve Board the flexibility it needs to steer the economy or to keep the value of the dollar from plunging further in world exchange markets . " There 's no doubt that some deficit reduction helps , but if your objective is to stabilize the dollar and perserve the Fed 's flexibility to conduct monetary policy , then the answer is , it 's not enough , " Silvia told Reuters . The U.S. trade deficit has become one of the government 's most vexing and persistent problems . The 1986 deficit was 169.8 billion dlrs and there is as yet little indication that this year 's figure will be any lower , though administration officials have predicted it will drop by about 20 to 30 billion dlrs by year 's end . In the past , Volcker has joked that he never lost sleep worrying whether Congress would cut too much fat from the federal budget . On the other hand , he also has made it clear he is not attached to the gradually declining deficit ceilings set for the 1986-1991 period by last year 's Gramm-Rudman balanced budget law . While the new law set a ceiling of 108 billion dlrs for next year 's federal deficit , both the House and Senate Budget Committees have conceded that their budget plans would fall short of the deficit reduction goal by about 25 billion dlrs . " For political reasons , 35 to 40 billion dlrs is about the most you 're going to get " out of Congress at the present time , said Touche Ross 's Collander . " To do something more than that would be extraordinary , remarkable and very , very difficult . " Collander said the real danger for Congress was to end up short of the deficit reduction goal set by its Budget panels . " To an extent , this has become the minimum acceptable reduction level , " he explained . " Anything less than that will now look like a failure to Wall Street . " The budget plan now under debate on the House floor would lower an estimated 171 billion dlr deficit for the year beginning on October one to about 133 billion dlrs by cutting defense and domestic programs by 38 billion dlrs from their anticipated spending levels for next year . The Senate Budget Committee has called for a deficit of nearly 134 billion dlrs with about 18.5 billion dlrs in new taxes and about the same amount in spending cuts . Reuter 
<TEST	15364	interest	money-fx>
called on central banks of major industrialised nations to cooperate closely on exchange and interest rate policies . In a lecture at the University of Surrey , pre-released here , Koehler said that the only alternative to cooperation was protectionism and control on capital movements . " Central banks have sufficient experience of exchange market transactions to steer exchange rates where they want to have them ," he said . He added that West German growth forecasts would have to be revised downward because of the recent dollar drop to 1.80 marks from above two marks at the start of 1987 . Koehler said that transactions on foreign exchange markets had parted company with transactions in goods , services and investments . It was the scale of speculative transactions that determined market trends . Speculative inflows could cause monetary aggregates to grow . To reverse such a rise in the money stock , interest rates would have to be lowered to allow funds to drain off . " In other words , the monetary policy measures required are different from and sometimes diametrically opposed to those needed when the money stock is increasing as a result of mounting economic activity , " Koehler said . The dollar fall was one means of reducing the massive U.S. Current account deficit . But attempts to keep the depreciation going by talking the dollar down posed problems . The sharp drop of the dollar had led to an immediate steep rise in the cost of U.S. Imports and a sharp fall in the cost of European imports . But the volume effect of falling imports to the U.S. And rising imports to Europe would take time to make itself felt compared with the price effect . " H ence the depreciation of the dollar may well be going further than would be necessary to adjust the current account over the medium term , " Koehler said . A reduction in the U.S. Current account deficit would occur only if the growth rate of GNP was higher than domestic demand . In Japan and West Germany by contrast , domestic demand should rise faster than GNP . " In Germany this did indeed happen in 1986 , " Koehler said . If a further appreciation of the dollar was to be prevented , the U.S. Current account deficit could be offset by an inflow of foreign funds into the U.S. . But only if there was an appropriate interest rate differential would Europe and Japan look for financial investment in the U.S. When selecting monetary policy instruments , a central bank had to pay greater heed than in the past to the impact its measures might have on expectations and consequent decisions . Koehler said the Bundesbank was changing money market rates by operating on the open market rather than adjusting leading interest rates because of the signal this gives to the market and its substantial impact on exchange rates . It was not only important to achieve the domestic goals of price stability , economic growth and full employment but also to tackle international problems like the exchange rate problem , the debt problem and the current account problem . A strategy had to be designed that helped " the safeguarding of non-inflationary economic growth in an international monetary system largely free of disruptions , " Koehler said . Given the system of floating exchange rates , it was necessary for central banks to agree to intervene . It sufficed to tell the market where central banks saw exchange rates over the next few years and intervention points should not be set , because they were only testing points for the market , he said . In order to keep the international monetary system free of disruptions central banks should not only intervene jointly but also cooperate on interest rate policies , Koehler said . REUTER 
<TEST	15367	grain>
on a local newspaper report that Japan had agreed to hold talks on its closed rice market in the new GATT round . " We have no idea about the report and cannot comment , " a spokesman told Reuters . Nihon Keizai Shinbun , quoting unnamed government sources , said Japan would tell U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng and U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter of its intentions . The two are due to visit Japan later this month for farm talks . The U.S. Has been pressing Japan to discuss the rice issue at the new round of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade talks . But Japan has said GATT is not the right forum . Imports of rice to Japan are banned under the Foodstuff Control Act . Nihon Keizai said Japan 's plan resulted from worries about mounting trade tension with the U.S. At the GATT talks , Japan will try to persuade the U.S. That its rice policy is justified , it said . The 93-nation world trade body began the Uruguay trade round last September . It will take four years to negotiate . REUTER 
<TEST	15372	acq	trade>
Telecommunications ( MPT ) has emerged as an international force to be reckoned with , political analysts said . MPT , thrust into the spotlight by trade rows with the U.S. And Britain , is in a position of strength due to its control of a lucrative industry and its ties with important politicians , they said . " The ministry is standing athwart the regulatory control of a key industrial sector , telecommunications and information , " said one diplomatic source . " They are a potent political force , " the diplomatic source said . But MPT is finding domestic political prowess does not always help when it comes to trade friction diplomacy , analysts said . " The ministry was a minor ministry and its people were not so internationalized , " said Waseda University professor Mitsuru Uchida . " Suddenly they 're standing at the centre of the world community and in that sense , they 're at a loss ( as to ) how to face the situation . " Most recently the ministry has been embroiled in a row with London over efforts by Britain 's Cable and Wireless Plc to keep a major stake in one of two consortia trying to compete in Japan 's lucrative overseas telephone business . The ministry has favoured the merger of the two rival groups , arguing the market cannot support more than one competitor to Kokusai Denshin Denwa Co Ltd , which now monopolizes the business . It has also opposed a major management role in the planned merger for any non-Japanese overseas telecommunications firm on the grounds that no such international precedent exists . The ministry 's stance has outraged both London , which has threatened to retaliate , and Washington , which says the merger plan is evidence of Japan 's failure to honour pledges to open its telecommunications market . Washington is also angry over other ministry moves which it says have limited access for U.S. Firms to Japan 's car telephone and satellite communications market . Much of MPT 's new prominence stems from the growth of the sector it regulates . " What has been happening is an important shift in the economy which makes the ministry a very important place , " said James Abegglen , head of the consulting firm Asia Advisory Service Inc. A decision to open the telecommunications industry to competition under a new set of laws passed in 1985 has boosted rather than lessened MPT 's authority , analysts said . " With the legal framework eased , they became the de facto legal framework , " said Bache Securities ( Japan ) analyst Darrell Whitten . Close links with the powerful political faction of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party ( LDP ) nurtured by former Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka are another key to MPT 's influence , the analysts said . " O ther factions ignored MPT ( in the 1970s ) , but the Tanaka faction was forward looking and Recognized the importance of MPT , " Uchida said . Many former bureaucrats became members of the influential political group , he added . The ministry also has power in the financial sector due to the more than 100,000 billion yen worth of deposits in the Postal Savings System , analysts said . MPT has helped block Finance Ministry plans to deregulate interest rates on small deposits , a key element in financial liberalisation , since the change would remove the Postal Savings System 's ability to offer slightly higher rates than banks , they said . Diplomatic sources , frustrated with what they see as MPT 's obstructionist and protectionist posture , have characterized the ministry as feudal . Critics charge MPT with protecting its own turf , limiting competition and sheltering the former monopolies under its wing . Providing consumers with the best service at the lowest price takes a back seat to such considerations , they said . But many of the ministry 's actions are not unlike those of its bureaucratic counterparts in much of the Western world including Britain , several analysts said . " The United States is really the odd man out , " Abegglen said . " For a government to take the view that it wants to keep order in utilities markets is not an unusual and/or unreasonable view , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	15375	trade	money-fx>
by the Group of Seven the U.S. , Japan , West Germany , France , Britain , Italy and Canada issued after a Washington meeting yesterday . 1 . The finance ministers and central bank governors of seven major industrial countries met today . They continued the process of multilateral surveillance of their economies pursuant to the arrangements for strengthened economic policy coordination agreed at the 1986 Tokyo summit of their heads of state or government . The managing director of the International Monetary Fund also participated in the meeting . 2 . The ministers and governors reaffirmed the commitment to the cooperative approach agreed at the recent Paris meeting , and noted the progress achieved in implementing the undertakings embodied in the Louvre A greement . They agreed , however , that further actions will be essential to resist rising protectionist pressures , sustain global economic expansion , and reduce trade imbalances . In this connection they welcomed the proposals just announced by the governing Liberal Democratic Party in Japan for extraordinary and urgent measures to stimulate Japan 's economy through early implementation of a large supplementary budget exceeding those of previous years , as well as unprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures . The government of Japan reaffirmed its intention to further open up its domestic markets to foreign goods and services . 3 . The ministers and governors reaffirmed the view that around current levels their currencies are within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting . In that connection they welcomed the strong implementation of the Louvre A greement . They concluded that present and prospective progress in implementing the policy undertakings at the Louvre and in this statement provided a basis for continuing close cooperation to foster the stability of exchange rates . REUTER 
<TEST	15378	money-fx	interest>
offers of first category paper today for a money market intervention tender . Money market operators were divided over whether the Bank of France will use to occasion to cut its intervention rate , which has stood at 7-3/4 pct since March 9 . Some thought a price cut unlikely while others said there was room for a further 1/4 point cut by the bank . REUTER 
<TEST	15384	interest>
sparked renewed speculation in financial markets that a cut in the West German three pct discount rate may be under discussion , currency dealers said . Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler said in a speech that monetary growth resulting from speculative capital inflows required cuts in interest rates . Separately , West Berlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss told journalists that the discount rate could fall below its lowest ever point of 2.75 pct . He made clear that he was not making a forecast on interest rates , however . Currency dealers here and in the Far East said the dollar gained slight background support from the speculation . But German dealers noted that the Bundesbank kept the 3.80 pct rate unchanged at which it offered liquidity to the money market this week , dashing some expectations that it may either offer lower fixed rate money or offer a reduced minimum rate and let the strength of banks ' demands set the allocation rate . It allocated 6.1 billion marks in new liquidity , much less than the 14.9 billion leaving the market as a prior pact expired . This further weakened sentiment the Bundesbank could move to a more accommodative monetary stance , dealers said . Koehler said in a speech in Surrey , England , speculative capital inflows may cause monetary growth , regardless of whether central banks intervened or exchange rates fell . " In other words , the monetary policy measures required are different from and sometimes diametrically opposed to those needed when the money stock is increasing as a result of mounting economic activity . " Though Koehler was known to be the most liberal of the generally monetarist Bundesbank board , his comments marked the first time cuts in rates had been concretely suggested as a counterpoint to overly strong monetary growth , dealers said . REUTER^M 
<TEST	15386	trade>
almost quadrupled last year , reaching 2.72 billion roubles compared with 713 mln in 1985 , official figures showed . Statistics published by the monthly journal Foreign Trade showed Soviet trade turnover for 1986 fell to 130.9 billion roubles from 142.1 billion the previous year , a drop of 7.8 pct . Moscow 's trade surplus with East Bloc countries continued to grow in 1986 . Western analysts attributed the deficit rise with the West to the world oil price slump , which hit Moscow 's main export and cut hard currency earnings needed for purchases in the West . REUTER 
<TEST	15388	wheat	grain>
mln tonnes of wheat in China in 1986 , are threatening crops on 11.64 mln hectares this year , the China Daily said . About 14.54 mln hectares of wheat were affected in 1986 . The paper said abnormal weather conditions had encouraged the spread of wheat midges in 2.47 mln hectares in Shanxi , Henan , Sichuan , Anhui , Hebei and Jiangsu . In Henan , Shandong and Hebei wheat aphids are affecting 4.67 mln hectares , wheat red mite 2.8 mln hectares and wheat powdery mildew 1.7 mln hectares . REUTER 
<TEST	15410	interest>
Bahrain-based banks scrambled to cover short positions , dealers said . Several Bahrain banks had been lending in the fixed periods and borrowing in the short dates , but today they found the day-to-day money in short supply , dealers said . " Everybody 's stuck in the spot-next , " one trader said . Spot-next rose to as high as 6-1/4 , six pct from 5-1/4 , five pct yesterday , and the borrowing interest spilled over into the periods , with one month rising to around 6-3/16 , 5-15/16 pct from 5-15/16 , 7/8 pct yesterday . Three months edged up to around 6-9/16 , 5/1 6 pct from 6-7/16 , 1/4 pct , while six months was quoted a touch firmer by some banks at seven , 6-3/4 pct . Commercial banks quoted the spot riyal at 3.7500/04 to the dollar after 3.7507/09 yesterday . REUTER 
<TEST	15430	trade>
billion dlrs in February compared with an upward revised 623 mln dlrs surplus in January , Statistics Canada said . The January surplus originally was reported at 533 mln dlrs . The February surplus last year was 189 mln dlrs . February exports , seasonally adjusted , were 10.44 billion dlrs against 9.85 billion in January and 10.05 billion in February , 1986 . February imports were 9.19 billion dlrs against 9.23 billion in January and 9.86 billion in February , 1986 . Reuter 
<TEST	15431	money-fx>
of dollars at around 145.10 yen just after the market here opened , dealers said . Just before the opening , the dollar dropped swiftly as speculators concluded the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) comminuique issued in Washington contained nothing basically new , they said . It fell about a half yen , to around 145 . The G-7 reaffirmed that their currencies around current levels reflect economic fundamentals . One dealer said the Bank of Japan probably intervened in Australia before the opening here , but could not confirm this . REUTER 
<TEST	15436	money-fx	interest>
the money market this morning , buying 103 mln stg bank bills . The central bank bought in band one 60 mln stg at 9-7/8 , in band two eight mln at 9-13/16 , in band three 26 mln at 9-3/4 and in band four nine mln stg at 9-11/16 pct . This compares with the bank 's forecast of a 400 mln stg shortfall today . REUTER 
<TEST	15442	money-fx>
to the G-7 communique , with comments from bankers and dealers ranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete to surprise that the markets should have expected so much . The dollar opened lower against virtually all currencies and traded in a narrow range after the communique , which reaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currency stabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it . Dealers in Frankfurt and Zurich saw the dollar remaining broadly entrenched in its current trading range . " The dollar is likely to stay within a range of 1.80 to 1.84 marks , " said Gisela Steinhaeuser , senior dealer at Chase Bank AG . She said there was some resistance to further climbs . However , she said the dollar could break out of the range with major surprises such as a worse-than-expected U.S. Merchandise trade deficit , due next Tuesday . Theodor Stadelmann , dealer with Bank Julius Baer and Co Ltd in Zurich , said he expects the dollar to hold steady against the mark and Swiss franc but to weaken further against the yen , possibly to 140 yen . A Milan banker shared Stadelmann 's view , saying he expects a dollar-yen range of 140-150 in the short term . London traders said the G-7 communique failed to curb underlying bearishness toward the dollar but this negative sentiment was not yet strong enough to tempt interbank operators to test the downside . Concern that finance ministers and officials still in Washington could issue more concrete statements in favour of currency stabilisation kept players sidelined , along with worries about provoking fresh central bank intervention in the near term , the traders said . Most Paris dealers expressed disappointment at the communique , saying nothing has changed to reverse the dollar 's downward trend . Traders in several centres said the market would look for fresh opportunities to test the willingness of central banks to defend current ranges , which the communique said were " broadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting . " Dave Jou hin , senior dealer at Midland Bank in London , said " They 're going to put somebody 's resolve to the test soon . " The U.S. February trade data may provide the trigger , dealers said . However , some dealers said London-based operators would be unlikely to open major positions next week ahead of the long Easter weekend . They saw near-term technical support at 1.825 marks and 145 yen and resistance about 1.83 marks and 146 yen . Chase Bank 's Steinhaeuser and other Frankfurt dealers said the G-7 communique guaranteed a relatively calm and stable market for the foreseeable future compared with the extreme volatility seen in the first few months of this year . One dealer at a German bank said the wording of the communique made clear the leading nations did not want a further dollar drop , and this was supporting the dollar . The German dealer saw the dollar gradually appreciating to 1.87 marks , broadly seen as its upper limit within the Louvre accord 's supposed currency target range . A Swiss bank economist said he believed the markets were ready for a period of " mainly sideways movement . " But Milan dealers were sceptical about the communique contributing to greater stability . " Nothing has changed substantially to give the dollar a big boost , " said one dealer , while another Italian banker said he expects the dollar to trade between 1.77 and 1.87 German marks in the next three months . A Swiss monetary source , who asked not to be named , said the communique had been in line with realistic expectations and should not have produced disappointment . " The problem is that the changes needed in fiscal and trade policies to redress current imbalances are of a different timescale than currency markets operate on , " the source told Reuters , " This is a political process which takes time . " Alois Schwietert , chief economist at Swiss Bank Corp in Basle , also questioned the tone of disappointment evident on currency markets today . "D id people really expect a patent remedy ? " he asked . Bank economists in Paris noted yesterday 's meeting was only the first in a series and said the market would watch carefully in the next few weeks for any changes in positions . A senior economist with Banque Indosuez said the focus was now on trade and growth rather than interest rates . Any move by Japan and West Germany to boost their economic growth could lead to a quick change in the U.S. Position . Dealers in all centres agreed that markets would be wary in pushing the dollar too far too quickly in the coming months while central banks appear resolved to use their muscle to support the Paris accord . REUTER 
<TEST	15444	money-fx	interest>
hopes the Bundesbank will cut rates on securities repurchase pacts , but operators remained divided on the likelihood of a move in the near term , money market dealers said . Comments by Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler yesterday that rate cuts were needed to curb money supply growth from speculative capital inflows , and by West Berlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss that there was no natural lower limit to the discount rate had , however , no immediate impact . Call money declined to 3.65/75 pct from 3.75/85 pct but the drop was tied to extra liquidity in the market , dealers said . Dealers said the Bundesbank 's latest liquidity allotment this week dashed some hopes of lower rates . The Bundesbank allotted only 6.1 billion marks yesterday in new liquidity in a repurchase pact at an unchanged rate of 3.80 pct , thus subtracting some 8.8 billion marks from the market , as an outgoing 14.9 billion pact expired . But some dealers said the smaller volume awarded by the pact was in line with present liquid money market conditions , and did not exlude a cut in the repurchase pact rate soon to 3.70 pct if money market rates continue at present levels . The next opportunity for the Bundesbank to lower rates on repurchase pacts will be in a tender expected next Tuesday . Bundesbank officials have already said they favour more discreet rate adjustments through repurchase pacts , rather than the more public adjustment of leading rates . The Bundesbank may either set a fixed allocation rate and allow banks to tender for the volume , as has been the case since it lowered its discount rate January 22 , or else it may allow banks to tender for the rate and set the volume itself . Dealers expect volume of the tender to be lower than the 15.2 billion marks flowing out , to offset other incoming funds . Some seven billion marks is expected to flow in next week . This should then flow back into the market as it is deposited with banks . Banks were well supplied with liquidity , holding 61.5 billion marks in reserves at the Bundesbank on Tuesday . Holdings of average daily reserves over the first seven days of April stood at 59.6 billion marks , still above the estimated 51 billion required for all of April . REUTER 
<TEST	15447	trade>
investigation into allegations of dumping by Japanese semiconductor makers in a move which diplomats said could mark an intensification of world trade strains . Tokyo already faces a deadline of April 17 from Washington for the imposition of 300 mln dlrs worth of tariffs on chips it imports into the U.S. The EC Executive Commission said today the European Electrical Component Manufacturers Association complained that Japanese firms were selling high capacity EPROM type ( erasable programmable read only memory ) chips at unfairly low prices . Japan last year took 78 pct of the 170 mln dlr EC EPROM market , up from 60 pct in 1984 . The EC firms said they had been forced to offer their products at a discount of up to 30 pct in order to compete with the Japanese . The Commission said it believed the Association had given sufficient elements of proof for dumping to warrant an investigation , which could lead it to impose duties if it found the complaints were justified . The Commission claims last year 's accord between the U.S. And Japan on microchip pricing gives U.S. Firms privileged access to the Japanese market . REUTER 
<TEST	15448	money-fx>
a new series of three month money market certificates totalling around 150 mln Swiss francs , the National Bank said . Subscriptions close April 14 and payment date is April 16 . The last series of three month paper issued in March raised 147.3 mln francs at an issue price of 99.142 pct , giving an average annual yield of 3.501 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	15449	money-fx>
to the G-7 communique , with comments from bankers and dealers ranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete to surprise that the markets should have expected so much . The dollar opened lower against virtually all currencies and traded in a narrow range after the communique , which reaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currency stabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it . Frankfurt and Zurich dealers saw the dollar staying broadly entrenched in its current trading range . REUTER 
<TEST	15450	money-fx>
industrialized nations agreed on the need to stabilize currencies at current levels but said more action was needed to reduce trade imbalances and sustain economic growth . In a communique issued after a four-hour meeting at the U.S. Treasury that ended last night , the ministers said the value of the dollar and other currencies was basically correct now , and they welcomed new measures planned by the Japanese to boost their economy . West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg called it a " good meeting " and in brief remarks exchanged with reporters other ministers seemed pleased with its outcome . Shortly after the communique was issued and just as foreign exchange trading opened in Tokyo , the Bank of Japan intervened again to prevent the yen rising too quickly . The communique said , " The ministers and governors reaffirmed the commitment to the cooperative approach agreed at the recent Paris meeting . They agreed , however , that further actions will be essential to resist rising protectionist pressures , sustain global economic expansion and reduce trade imbalances . " It welcomed the plans set this week by the Japan 's ruling Liberal Democratic Party to stimulate its economy with what the communique termed " extraordinary and urgent measures " including an " unprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures . " The meeting of the so-called Group of Seven brought together ministers and central bank governors of the seven major industrial democracies , the United States , Japan , West Germany , France , Britain , Italy and Canada . The communique said the ministers reaffirmed the commitment on cooperation reached in a meeting on February 22 in Paris when they had agreed to stabilize foreign exchange rates at the then-current levels . In the weeks that followed , the dollar continued to fall against the Japanese yen despite massive dollar purchases by the Bank of Japan and other central banks and is now trading at around postwar lows . Japan has come under growing criticism from both the United States and European countries for its only modest efforts to open its markets to outside competition and to reduce its exports . The communique said Japan affirmed its intention to open domestic markets to foreign goods and services but did not elaborate . It said the officials " reaffirmed the view that around current levels their currencies are within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting . " Reuter 
<TEST	15452	trade	money-fx>
by the Group of Seven the U.S. , Japan , West Germany , France , Britain , Italy and Canada issued after a Washington meeting yesterday . 1 . The finance ministers and central bank governors of seven major industrial countries met today . They continued the process of multilateral surveillance of their economies pursuant to the arrangements for strengthened economic policy coordination agreed at the 1986 Tokyo summit of their heads of state or government . The managing director of the International Monetary Fund also participated in the meeting . 2 . The ministers and governors reaffirmed the commitment to the cooperative approach agreed at the recent Paris meeting , and noted the progress achieved in implementing the undertakings embodied in the Louvre A greement . They agreed , however , that further actions will be essential to resist rising protectionist pressures , sustain global economic expansion , and reduce trade imbalances . In this connection they welcomed the proposals just announced by the governing Liberal Democratic Party in Japan for extraordinary and urgent measures to stimulate Japan 's economy through early implementation of a large supplementary budget exceeding those of previous years , as well as unprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures . The government of Japan reaffirmed its intention to further open up its domestic markets to foreign goods and services . 3 . The ministers and governors reaffirmed the view that around current levels their currencies are within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting . In that connection they welcomed the strong implementation of the Louvre A greement . They concluded that present and prospective progress in implementing the policy undertakings at the Louvre and in this statement provided a basis for continuing close cooperation to foster the stability of exchange rates . REUTER 
<TEST	15453	money-fx>
Miyazawa said the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) countries reaffirmed their Paris accord on stabilising currencies to convince the market of their resolve . At a news conference after today 's G-7 meeting , Miyazawa said the ministers and central bank governors did not believe a totally new statement was needed . The speculative selling did not reflect economic fundamentals , and since the fundamentals had not changed only a reaffirmation of the goals of the Paris accord was needed , he said . He also noted that this test of the G-7 nations resolve had concentrated on the yen , while other currencies , especially the mark , had remained stable . Miyazawa said any change in economic conditions since the Paris accord was not worth being called fundamental . "As I said at a time of Louvre ( agreement ) , the expression of 'current level ' is rather vague idea , " he said . The yen 's movement in the past several weeks is within the range agreed in Paris in Febraury , he said . It was better to give a vague expression than pin-pointing a level , which could have an adverse impact on the market , Miyazawa said . Asked why only Japan was committed to fresh measures in the statement , he said Japan was exceptional among the seven because the yen appreciated against the dollar while other major currencies largely have been stable . He also said Japan 's ruling Liberal Democratic Party has justed adoped a package to reflate the economy while other nations are not supposed to produce new measures in a short period since the Paris agreement . Miyazawa also said the U.S. sanctions against Japanese semiconductor products was not discussed through the G-7 meeting and did not affect the currency talks . The seven nations discussed the debt problems of developing countries and ways to proceed in line with the debt initiative outlined by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker 18 months ago . REUTER 
<TEST	15460	money-fx>
to the G-7 communique , with comments from bankers and dealers ranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete to surprise that the markets should have expected so much . The dollar opened lower against virtually all currencies and traded in a narrow range after the communique , which reaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currency stabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it . Dealers in Frankfurt and Zurich saw the dollar remaining broadly entrenched in its current trading range . " The dollar is likely to stay within a range of 1.80 to 1.84 marks , " said Gisela Steinhaeuser , senior dealer at Chase Bank AG . She said there was some resistance to further climbs . However , she said the dollar could break out of the range with major surprises such as a worse-than-expected U.S. Merchandise trade deficit , due next Tuesday . Theodor Stadelmann , dealer with Bank Julius Baer and Co Ltd in Zurich , said he expects the dollar to hold steady against the mark and Swiss franc but to weaken further against the yen , possibly to 140 yen . A Milan banker shared Stadelmann 's view , saying he expects a dollar-yen range of 140-150 in the short term . London traders said the G-7 communique failed to curb underlying bearishness toward the dollar but this negative sentiment was not yet strong enough to tempt interbank operators to test the downside . Concern that finance ministers and officials still in Washington could issue more concrete statements in favour of currency stabilisation kept players sidelined , along with worries about provoking fresh central bank intervention in the long term , the traders said . Most Paris dealers expressed disappointment at the communique , saying nothing has changed to reverse the dollar 's downward trend . Traders in several centres said the market would look for fresh opportunities to test the willingness of central banks to defend current ranges , which the communique said were " broadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting . " Dave Jou hin , senior dealer at Midland Bank in London , said " They 're going to put somebody 's resolve to the test soon . " The U.S. February trade data may provide the trigger , dealers said . However , some dealers said London-based operators would be unlikely to open major positions next week ahead of the long Easter weekend . They saw near-term technical support at 1.825 marks and 145 yen and resistance about 1.83 marks and 146 yen . Chase Bank 's Steinhaeuser and other Frankfurt dealers said the G-7 communique guaranteed a relatively calm and stable market for the foreseeable future compared with the extreme volatility seen in the first few months of this year . One dealer at a German bank said the wording of the communique made clear the leading nations did not want a further dollar drop , and this was supporting the dollar . The German dealer saw the dollar gradually appreciating to 1.87 marks , broadly seen as its upper limit within the Louvre accord 's supposed currency target range . A Swiss bank economist said he believed the markets were ready for a period of " mainly sideways movement . " But Milan dealers were sceptical about the communique contributing to greater stability . " Nothing has changed substantially to give the dollar a big boost , " said one dealer , while another Italian banker said he expects the dollar to trade between 1.77 and 1.87 German marks in the next three months . Reuter 
<TEST	15472	wheat	grain>
( FAO ) said global wheat and coarse grain output was likely to fall in 1987 but supplies would remain adequate to meet demand . FAO said in its monthly food outlook bulletin total world grain output was expected to fall 38 mln tonnes to 1,353 mln in 1987 , due mainly to unusually high winter losses in the Soviet Union , drought in China and reduced plantings in North America . World cereal stocks at the end of 1986/87 were forecast to rise 47 mln tonnes to a record 452 mln tonnes , softening the impact of reduced production . But stocks are unevenly distributed , with about 50 pct held by the U.S. " Th us the food security prospects in 1987/88 for many developing countries , particularly in Africa , depend crucially on the outcome of this year 's harvests , " FAO said . FAO said world cereal supplies in 1986/87 were estimated at a record 2,113 mln tonnes , about five pct higher than last season and due mainly to large stocks and a record 1986 harvest , estimated at 1,865 mln tonnes . FAO 's forecast of 1986/87 world cereals trade was revised upwards by eight mln tonnes to 179 mln due to the likelihood of substantial buying by China and the Soviet Union . REUTER 
<TEST	15484	ship>
production workers represented by the multi -union Pacific Coast Metal Trades District Council at its San Francisco division struck on April Six . It said negotiations are expected to resume at the end of this month . Todd also said the collective bargaining division in effect at its Galveston Division expires April 17 , and negotiations with the Galveston Metal Trades Council are continuing . The company said results of balloting on a new collective bargaining agreement proposal in its Seattle Division are expected to be tabulated at the close of business tomorrow . The Pacific Coast Council has recommended acceptance of that proposal by membership , Todd said . Reuter 
<TEST	15500	grain	wheat>
minimum export prices of grain and oilseed products in dlrs per tonne FOB , previous in brackets , as follows Sorghum 64 ( 63 ) , sunflowerseed cake and expellers 103 ( 102 ) , pellets 101 ( 100 ) , meal 99 ( 98 ) , linseed oil 274 ( 264 ) , groundnutseed oil 450 ( 445 ) , soybean oil 300 ( 290 ) , rapeseed oil 290 ( 280 ) . Sunflowerseed oil for shipment through May 323 ( 313 ) and june onwards 330 ( 320 ) . The board also adjusted export prices at which export taxes are levied in dlrs per tonne FOB , previous in brackets , as follows Bran pollard wheat 40 ( 42 ) , pellets 42 ( 44 ) . REUTER 
<TEST	15510	money-fx>
its estimate of today 's shortfall to 350 mln stg from 400 mln , before taking account of 103 mln stg morning assistance . REUTER 
<TEST	15520	crude>
open unchanged to slightly lower this morning with support near yesterday 's lows . Crude futures are called unchanged to five cts weaker tracking unchanged domestic crudes and North Sea Brent crude , which traded at 18.01 dlrs a barrel today , about ten cts below yesterday 's New York close . Traders said the supply squeeze in 15-day forward April Brent appears to have ended . Product futures , which fell sharply yesterday , are due to open unchanged to 0.25 cent lower , traders said . Traders expect some followthrough selling in products but said gasoil futures in London will probably lend some support since they are trading as expected . May gasoil futures were off 1.50 dlrs a tonne this morning while June was down 1.25 dlrs in thin conditions . Reuter 
<TEST	15523	money-fx>
its revised estimate of today 's shortfall in the money market , providing 261 mln stg assistance in afternoon operations . The Bank bought in band one , 60 mln stg bank bills at 9-7/8 pct and in band two 200 mln stg bank bills and one mln stg treasury bills at 9-13/16 pct . This brings the total help so far today to 364 mln stg , compared with its deficit estimate of 350 mln stg . REUTER 
<TEST	15527	money-fx>
the U.S. Dollar again today with dealers attributing the decline to continued political uncertainty . The pound closed at 118.25/118.75 against the dollar compared to yesterday 's close of 115.60/115.80 . " Political deadlock is reflected in the pound 's position . There was more demand and less on offer in the market ," one dealer told Reuters . The pound , which was at 18 to the dollar in January , 1986 , has lost more than 30 pct of its international value over the past three months . REUTER 
<TEST	15531	grain	ship>
reported out of the U.S. But none of the business involved the significant voyages to the Continent or Japan , ship brokers said . A steady 13.50 dlrs was paid from the U.S. Gulf to Morocco and 23.25 dlrs was paid for 27,000 long tons from the Gulf to Taiwan . A vessel carrying 13,500 long tons of bagged wheat flour from the Gulf to Aqaba received a lump sum of 472,500 dlrs . Grain from the Great Lakes to Algeria made 28 dlrs against 27.75 paid for similar fixing towards the end of March . Market talk suggested a Federal Commerce vessel had been booked to move grain from the Great Lakes to Morocco on Comanav account at about 22 dlrs and 15.50 had been paid for a cargo of oilseeds from British Columbia to Japan , but no confirmation was obtainable . On the Continent , shippers agreed 19 dlrs for wheat from La Pallice to Buenaventura and 10.75 dlrs for grain from Ghent to Naples/Venice range . Elsewhere , maize from East London to Japan paid 22 dlrs . Soviet charterers reappeared in the timecharter sector and secured a 30,000 tonner from Savona for a trans-Atlantic round trip at 4,450 dlrs daily and a 31,000 tonner from Antwerp-Hamburg for a similar voyage at 4,250 dlrs daily . Reuter 
<TEST	15539	money-fx	interest>
to change monetary course , vice-president Helmut Schlesinger told Reuters in a telephone interview . Schlesinger was responding to questions following remarks yesterday by Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler and West Berlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss , which , dealers said , revived some speculation that German interest rate cuts may once again be under discussion . Schlesinger said he had no comment on the remarks of his two central bank council colleagues . But he added that the last central bank council meeting on April 2 had discussed the economic situation with a mood of " subdued optimism , " particularly influenced by the news brought by several state central bank presidents . " Much is going better than the impression gained by the public from the January figures , which have been in the meantime superseded , " he said . German January industrial output fell 3.0 pct after a decline of 0.9 pct in December . New industry orders fell 1.9 pct after they had been unchanged in December . Bank economists said that the two together showed the economy would either stagnate or contract in the first quarter of 1987 . Aside from the economic developments , Schlesinger added , a steady monetary course was important to hold the dollar/mark rate around current levels as Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl had said while attending the Washington World Bank/IMF meeting . Asked , however , if the Bundesbank could move to cut rates on repurchase agreements at the setting of the next repurchase tender , due next Tuesday , Schlesinger said , " Since the central bank council gives its opinion on this theme only every 14 days , this is hardly probable . " Responding to the question whether the Bundesbank had moved away from a policy of targetting monetary growth toward one of targetting currency rates , Schlesinger said he could have no comment on the subject while negotiations were still in progress in Washington . REUTER 
<TEST	15550	interest>
intervention rate unchanged at 7-3/4 pct when it injected funds in the market against first category paper in today 's money market intervention tender . Money market dealers had earlier expressed mixed views on the possibility of quarter point cut . The rate was last adjusted on March 9 , when it was cut to 7-3/4 pct from the eight pct rate set in January . REUTER 
<TEST	15552	interest	trade>
federation , Jose Maria Cuevas , said employers were worried about the government 's monetary policies because high real interest rates were hampering investment . He told a news conference wage pacts signed so far this year were not endangering the government 's five pct inflation target . The government 's perceived need to control inflation by keeping a tight rein on credit was unn e cessary , he said . High real interest rates were attracting an influx of speculative foreign capital which was undercutting the government 's target for monetary growth , Cuevas said . Spain 's most closely-watched measure of money supply , liquid assets in public hands , grew at an annualised rate of 17 pct in March , against 11.4 pct in December last year and a target range of 6.5 to 9.5 pct for 1987 . To combat this , the Bank of Spain has raised its call money rate 14 times so far this year , to 14.5 pct at present from 11.8 at end-1986 . Cuevas said employers were heeding the government 's call to hold wage increases to its five pct inflation target this year , with increases from salary reviews awarded last year and new wage pacts averaging 5.6 pct in the first quarter of 1987 . These agreements covered less than 40 pct of Spanish workers , Cuevas said , with the rest still in wage negotiations . He said Spain 's current wave of strikes mainly affected the state sector , where the government is trying to impose its five pct wage ceiling . Cuevas said employers were also worried about the trend in Spain 's foreign trade balance . The trade deficit in the first two months of 1987 totalled 233 billion pesetas , a 68 pct increase over the corresponding period last year . However , employers did not favour a devaluation of the peseta to correct the imbalance . REUTER 
<TEST	15560	interest>
adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-174 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-87 days 175-190 days 5.85 pct 5.82 pct 88-103 days 191-270 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 104-179 days 271-288 days 5.92 pct 5.85 pct 180-205 days 289-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 206-360 days Reuter 
<TEST	15567	grain	wheat>
been fixed at 160 mln tonnes in 1987/88 ( Apr-Mar ) , unchanged from the 1986/87 target , the Agriculture Ministry said in its annual report for 1986/87 . Actual output was estimated at 151 mln tonnes in 1986/87 due to failure of monsoon rains in 15 out of 35 meterological sub-divisions of the country . The report gave the targets for various crops with estimated harvested crops in 1986/87 in brackets as following , in mln tonnes rice 65 ( 60 ) , wheat 49 ( 49 ) , coarse grains including sorghum and millets 32 ( 29 ) and pulses 14 ( 13 ) . Despite failure of monsoon rains in recent years , it was possible to maintain higher foodgrain production , signifying growing resilience in agricultural sector , the report said . The strategy for increasing irrigation potential along with greater use of high yielding seed varieites and improvement in fertiliser efficiency is yielding results , it said , adding total foodgrain output in 1985/86 , 1984/85 and 1983/84 respectively was 150.5 mln tonnes , 145.5 mln and a record 152.4 mln . India has targeted to produce between 178 and 183 mln tonnes of foodgrains by the last year of the seventh five-year development plan ending March 31 , 1990 . Taking the midpoint of 180 mln tonnes as the target and the 1986/87 estimated production of around 151 mln tonnes , the gap of 29 mln tonnes has to be made up during the remaining three years of the plan by increasing grain output annually by more than nine mln tonnes . But the target can be achieved only with good weather , the report said . " The major thrust programme will , therefore , be better water ( irrigation ) management . Simultaneously , efforts for spread of improved technology including timely use of inputs ( farm materials like fertilisers ) in adequate quantities have to be vigrously pursued , " it said . Reuter 
<TEST	15572	grain	wheat>
wheat flour in its PL 480 tender yesterday , trade sources said . The purchase included 51,880 tonnes for May shipment and 73,843 tonnes for June shipment . Price details were not available . Reuter 
<TEST	15578	interest>
Association said its rates on short-term discount notes were as follows MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 5-14 days 5.80 pct 5.75 pct 5-14 days 15-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 15-85 days 5.80 pct 86-91 days 5.00 pct 92-176 days 5.83 pct 177-183 days 5.00 pct 184-360 days Reuter 
<TEST	15579	interest>
adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows MATURITY RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 33 days 6.00 pct 6.00 pct 33 days Reuter 
<TEST	15580	grain>
( CENTIGRADE ) AND RAIN ( MM ) IN THE 24 HOURS TO 12.00 GMT WERE ...............MAX TEMP. .MIN TEMP..RAIN FALL BUENOS AIRES.......24 .......12 ............0 BAHIA BLANCA.......22 ........7............0 TRES ARROYOS.......22 ........8............0 TANDIL.............22 ........7............0 JUNIN..............24 .......11 ............0 SANTA ROSA.........--........6............0 CORDOBA............23 .......12 ............1 SANTA FE...........21 .......18 ...........17 REUTER 
<TEST	15582	wheat	grain>
100,000 tonnes of wheat , the U.S. Agriculture Department 's Counselor in Belgrade said in a field report . The report , dated April 7 , said the wheat must be from 1986 and 1987 harvest , and imports of soft wheat from Europe and from other suppliers will not be considered . It said the imports will be used to rebuild the federal reserves and as a result will not be subject to import surcharges . Reuter 
<TEST	15610	interest>
adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-174 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-174 days 175-190 days 5.88 pct 5.85 pct 175-190 days 191-270 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 191-270 days 271-288 days 5.92 pct 5.92 pct 271-288 days 289-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 289-360 days Reuter 
<TEST	15615	money-fx	interest>
the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements , economists said . They said that while the Fed faces no great urgency to add reserves at the start of the two-week maintenance period today it would probably do so in order to offset a relatively high federal funds rate . Fed funds opened at 6-3/16 pct and remained there in early trading . Yesterday , they averaged 6.45 pct , after rising as high as seven pct at the close . Reuter 
<TEST	15617	interest>
the Exchequer , said some countries may need to cut interest rates with the aim of maintaining exchange rate stability . Speaking to journalists one day after the Group of Seven countries reaffirmed goals set in Paris six weeks ago , he said central banks would continue to intervene " as and when necessar y . " He said the G-7 countries were concerned that Japan do more to stimulate domestic demand and welcomed measures outlined by Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa yesterday . Lawson said he was still worried about the risk of a simultaneous recession in the United States , Japan and West Germany , though less so than when he gave his March 17 budget speech to the British Parliament . " If anything I 'm a little bit less concerned , but there is still a risk ," he said . Asked if the United States should consider increasing interest rates to support the dollar , he said , " If there is a need for changes in relative interest rates , it does n't need to be a rise in interest rates in the United States . " Lawson said there was some concern expressed in yesterday 's meetings at the slow progress the United States had made in reducing its budget deficit . " We believe there will be some worthwhile progress in reducing the deficit this year . The important thing is that it continue year after year , " Lawson said . The February 22 Louvre accord called for efforts to stabilize currencies at then-current exchange rates . In the six weeks that followed the Japanese yen continued to rise against the dollar despite massive central bank intervention . Asked whether this intervention was a sign of weakness in the Louvre accord , he said , " I do n't think so . If there had been no intervention you would have called that a sign of weakness . " Although intervention could be a cause of inflation , Lawson said , " the world does not appear to be in an inflationary mode but one has to be vigilant . " He said yesterday 's G-7 statement , which affirmed that " current levels " of exchange rates were appropriate , had been " carefully worded . " " We know what we mean , and we all mean the same thing , " he said . Lawson said financial markets seem to believe that Japanese measures outlined in the Louvre accord were the source of weakness for that agreement . Therefore , the G-7 countries welcomed Miyazawa 's presentation of plans for a supplemental budget to stimulate domestic demand . They particularly welcomed the goal of an immediate increase in public works spending , but Lawson said the package also involved a second stage to increase expenditures during the second half of this year . Reuter 
<TEST	15618	grain	corn	wheat>
to export 320,000 tonnes of free market barley , 225,000 tonnes of maize , 25,000 tonnes of free market bread-making wheat and 20,000 tonnes of feed wheat at today 's EC tender , trade sources said . For the barley , rebates of between 138 and 141.25 European currency units ( Ecus ) per tonne were sought , for maize they were between 129.65 and 139 E cus , for bread-making wheat around 145 Ecus and for feed wheat around 142.45 Ecus . Barley rebates of up to 138.50 Ecus were requested for a total of 40,000 tonnes and at 139 Ecus for 85,000 tonnes . Rebates of up to 130 Ecus per tonne were requested for a total of 55,000 tonnes maize and up to 131 Ecus for 105,000 tonnes , the sources said . Reuter 
<TEST	15621	money-fx>
issued a communique welcoming the reaffirmation of the Paris accord on currency stability by the Group of Seven leading industrial democracies yesterday . In the communique issued this morning , the G-10 said " prospects of member countries ' economies would be improved by stability in the exchange rates of their currencie s . " The G-10 includes the group of seven the United States , Canada , Britain , Japan , Italy , West Germany and France plus Belgium , the Netherlands , Sweden and also Switzerland . Sources who attended the G-10 conference this morning said the reference to the latest G-7 agreement was especially added to the brief communique because currency stability will benefit all the G-10 members . The G-10 met briefly before the International Monetary Fund Interim Committee meeting scheduled for today . . Reuter 
<TEST	15625	money-fx>
pfennig lower after a lacklustre session , held in limits by the lack of concrete news from the Group of Seven meeting and comments on the edge of the Washington IMF/World Bank meeting . Dealers said the communique early in the European morning from the G-7 meeting contained no significant new factors and although the dollar dipped it generally resisted further attempts to push it lower through the day . The U.S. Currency ended at 1.8270/80 marks , below yesterday 's last 1.8365/75 . Koch said the assessment of the dollar 's direction was based on a global view , with operators paying most attention to comments by finance officials to see how closely they stated adherence to international agreements such as those set at the Plaza Hotel in 1985 and in Paris on February 22 . Koch described the wording of the communique from the G-7 as " soft as wax . " Bundebank vice-president Helmut Schlesinger told Reuters in a telephone interview that the German central bank sees no current reason to change monetary course at present . Schlesinger was responding to questions following remarks yesterday by Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler and West Berlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss , which dealers said revived some speculation that German interest rate cuts may be under consideration . German call money was slightly softer today , at around 3.70 pct after 3.80 yesterday . Some dealers said rates on new liquidity injections added via Bundesbank securities repurchase agreements may be cut next week . Hopes of a cut were dashed on Tuesday with an allocation at an unchanged 3.80 pct . But speaking of the pact tender rate next week , Schlesinger said , " since the central bank council gives its opinion on this theme only every 14 days , this is hardly probable . " Euromark rates scarcely responded to the central bankers comments , with six months funds ending unaltered at around 3-7/8 pct . Eurodollars for the same maturity rose a fractional 1/16 pct from yesterday to around 6-11/16 pct . Sterling dipped to end at 2.952/956 marks after 2.960/965 last night . The Swiss franc firmed slightly to 120.30/45 marks per 100 from 120.25/40 , with the yen soaring however to 1.2570/90 marks per 100 from 1.2515/35 yesterday . EMS currencies saw the French franc end unchanged from last night at 30.03/06 marks per 100 , with the Belgian franc easing however to 4.829/831 marks per 100 from 4.831/833 . REUTER 
<TEST	15636	money-fx>
Nigel Lawson said he saw no immediate implications for British monetary policy arising from the Group of Seven meeting yesterday . " Exchange rate stability is in the U.K. 's interest , " he told journalists . Asked what it meant for U.K. monetary policy , he said , " No , I do not think there are any immediate implications . " Reuter 
<TEST	15656	money-fx>
that changes in exchange rates have generally been orderly and have improved the prospects for a reduction in external imbalances to more sustainable levels . In remarks before the IMF 's policy-making Interim Committee , Baker reiterated a Group of Seven statement last night that the substantial exchange rate changes since the Plaza agreement 18 months ago have " now brought currencies within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals . " Baker said , " These exchange rate shifts have generally been orderly , and have improved prospects for the reduction of external imbalances to more sustainable levels . " As they are today , the trade and current account imbalances " simply are not sustainable , " Baker told the ministers . He said that the Reagan administration was resisting " strong domestic pressur e " for trade protection and was working closely with the U.S. Congress in crafting a trade bill . " While we cannot yet be sure of the outcome , we are doing what we can to ensure that the bill is not protectionist , " he said . Baker also urged the International Monetary Fund 's executive board to review possible modifications to the Fund 's compensatory financing facility before the annual meeting this fall . " We should pay particular attention to the lack of continuing conditionality associated with the use of the CFF and to whether shortfalls in export earnings are indeed temporary , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	15666	trade>
Beryl Sprinkel said the Reagan Administration remains strongly opposed to a tax increase , including 18 billion dlrs of new revenues in the budget plan by Congressional Democrats . " We believe that significant increases in taxes would not reduce deficits and could have adverse effects on growth ," Sprinkel told the House Rules Committee . He said the Administration wanted to continue its policy of gradually reducing deficits through restraining government spending and promoting economic growth . Sprinkel said cutting the budget deficit was the best way to lower the trade deficit . Reuter 
<TEST	15676	grain	corn	wheat>
export of 65,000 tonnes of free market barley at today 's tender at a maximum rebate of 138.75 European currency units and 55,000 tonnes of French maize at 130 E cus , grain traders here said . It rejected bids for breadmaking and feed wheat , they said . Reuter 
<TEST	15686	grain	corn	wheat>
Brazilian state of Parana , soybean yields should be about average or 2.0 to 2.2 tonnes per hectare , the U.S. Agriculture Department 's officer in Sao Paulo said in a field report . The report , dated March 24 , noted Parana accounts for about 20 to 24 pct of Brazil 's total soybean crop . It said generally favorable weather from early December through February helped compensate for earlier dryness . However , hot , dry weather during the past 20 to 30 days followed by an unseasonably brief cold spell during the second week of march has raised concern about late planted soybeans which are still immature , but the impact may be localized , the report said . The corn crop is expected to be a record and will create serious storage problems , the report said . Due to favorable support prices , corn area increased by more than 25 pct at the expense of soybeans , and yields are expected to be above average , it said . Due to late plantings only about 20 pct of the corn crop crop has been harvested . During the field trip long truck lines were noted at grain elevators where preference is given to soybeans over corn , the report said . New crop wheat plantings are expected to decline Parana accounts for about 60 pct of total production . Major reasons for the decline are expected reduced government support price and good summer crop harvests . Reuter 
<TEST	15689	money-fx>
dollars for yen in the open market as the dollar fell to a 40-year low of 144.60 yen in nervous late morning trading , currency dealers said . They said the size of the intervention was relatively modest so far but it was a clear indication that the U.S. remained committed to the late February Paris currency stabilization accord , which was reaffirmed in Washington last night . A Fed spokeswoman had no comment on the dealer reports . The dollar hovered around 144.70 just before midday . Reuter 
<TEST	15694	money-fx>
Balladur said that the financial community is closer to arriving at a system of target zones for currencies despite the fact that little is being said about them . Speaking with reporters at the semiannual meetings of the International Monetary Fund , Balladur said , " We are not very far from the notion of target zones , even if we do n't say so . " He told reporters that " our ideas are progressing , " adding that the finance ministers have been talking about more cooperation on economic policies and on levels around which currencies should stabil ize . Reuter 
<TEST	15696	ship>
and Lyles refinery at Silvertown on the River Thames following a fire yesterday afternoon , Tate and Lyle Plc said . The fire destroyed a large sector of the main conveyor from the raw sugar jetty to the weighhouse . The company said it is not yet known how long the jetty will be out of use but it hoped that by tomorrow unloading of the bulk carrier Mykon Wave will be able to continue using temporary arrangements , Tate and Lyle said . The Mykon Wave arrived in the port recently with about 18,300 tonnes of bulk sugar from Maputo in Swaziland . About 1,600 tonnes remain to be discharged . Five other ships loaded with raw sugar are awaiting at Silvertown to be discharged , Tate and Lyle added . Reuter 
<TEST	15710	grain	ship>
were waiting to load at New Orleans elevators , trade sources said . ELEVATOR LOADING WAITING Continental Grain , Westwego 1 6 Mississippi River , Myrtle Grove 1 0 ADM Growmark 1 4 Bunge Grain , Destrehan 1 0 ELEVATOR LOADING WAITING ST CHARLES DESTREHAN 1 1 RESERVE ELEVATOR CORP 1 0 PEAVEY CO , ST ELMO 1 0 CARGILL GRAIN , TERRE HAUTE 2 1 CARGILL GRAIN , PORT ALLEN 0 0 ZEN- NOH 1 2 reuter 
<TEST	15720	grain	corn>
to buy up to one mln tonnes of maize into intervention stores in the second half of June , although sales into intervention normally end on April 30 , Commission sources said . They said approval was given by the EC 's Cereals Management Committee because of the possible disturbance of the market due to heavy imports of maize under the agreement between the EC and the United States . The agreement guarantees access to the Spanish market for two mln tonnes of non-EC maize a year for the next four years . The sources said the intervention price for the maize would be 201.49 Ecus a tonne . They said at this price it seemed unlikely that the full They added the decision is also designed to prevent massive offers of maize for intervention just ahead of the normal April 30 deadline , which could be caused by speculation about the implementation of the accord with the United States . Reuter 
<TEST	15725	trade>
coffee rose 55 pct in january compared with the same period last year , apparently setting a trend for the trade balance in 1987 , government statistics institute figures show . They amounted to 180.8 mln dlrs fob compared with 147.5 mln dlrs for coffee , a drop of 42 pct from last year . The trade balance registered a 35 mln dlr surplus , compared with a 56 mln dlr surplus in january 1986 . The national planning department forecast that in 1987 coffee , colombia 's traditional major export , will account for only one-third of total exports , or about 1.5 billion dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	15726	grain	ship>
USG/Taiwan 23.25 dlrs fio five days/1,500 1-10/5 Continental . Trade Banner 30,000 long tons grain USG/Morocco 13.50 dlrs 5,00 0/5,000 end-April/early-May Comanav. Reference New York Grain Freights 1 of April 8 , ship brokers say the vessel fixed by Cam from the Great Lakes to Algeria at 28 dlrs is reported to be the Vamand Wave . Reference New York Grain Freights 2 of April 8 , they say the Cory Grain maize business from East London at 22 dlrs is to Japan and not to Spain as reported . Reuter 
<TEST	15727	ship>
Fiji/Prai 16 dlrs fio 10,00 0/1,000 1-10/5 Fiji Sugar Marketing . TBN 15,000 mt bulk sugar Queensland/Japan 14.65 dlrs fio 10,00 0/1,000 20-30/4 CSR . ENQUIRIES Antwerp/1-3 ports Greece 40,000 mt bagged sugar indications 750/750 in shipments of 10,00 0/15,000 tonnes spread from May to July a/c unnamed charterer . Inchon/India 12,600 mt bagged sugar 1,000/1,000 20/4-5/5 a/c Kaines . Reunion/1-2 ports Portugal 10,000 mt bulk sugar about 20 dlrs 2,000/750 1-10/5 a/c French charterer . Reuter 
<TEST	15728	grain	ship	wheat>
daps 24-27/4 . New Orleans/Guanta 9,387 mt bulk hss 3,00 0/13 days 25-4/5-5 . Naantali/Saudi Red Sea 30,00 0/35,000 mt barley 4,00 0/3,000 20-30/4 or early May . Dunkirk/Xingang 12,000 mt bagged flour 1,50 0/1,700 13-20 /4 . Toledo/Seaforth 17,000 mt hss offers 18.50 dlrs four days/8,000 13-15/4 . River Plate/Malaysia 20,00 0/22,000 long tons hss 2,000/2,000 Apr . Reuter 
<TEST	15737	trade>
55 pct in January compared with the same period last year , figures from the government statistics institute show . Non-coffee exports amounted to 180.8 mln dlrs fob compared with 147.5 mln dlrs for coffee , a drop of 42 pct from last year . The trade balance registered a 35 mln dlr surplus , compared with a 56 mln dlr surplus in January 1986 . The national planning department forecast that in 1987 coffee , Colombia 's traditional major export , will account for only one third of total exports , or about 1.5 billion dlrs . REUTER 
<TEST	15816	interest>
from 7.15 pct the week before , Bank of Canada said . Bank rate is set 1/4 percentage point above the average yield on the weekly issue of 91-day treasury bills . This week 's yield was 6.95 pct compared with the previous week 's 6.90 pct . Tenders were accepted for 2.55 billion dlrs of 91-day bills at an average price of 98.296 dlrs against 98.310 dlrs last week . The 1.40 billion dlrs of 182-day bills were priced at an average 96.488 dlrs against 96.549 dlrs last week , to yield an average 7.30 pct , versus 7.17 pct last week . The 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills were priced at an average 92.969 dlrs against 93.159 dlrs last week , to yield an average 7.58 pct versus 7.38 pct last week . Tenders will be received next week for 2.50 billion dlrs of 91-day bills , 1.40 billion dlrs of 182-day bills and 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills . Reuter 
<TEST	15836	grain	wheat>
200,000 tonnes of any origin wheat for April 15-30 shipment , trade and Egyptian official sources said . Trade sources said the cancellation followed an offer by an Egyptian company , Islamic Corp , at 85.80 dlrs/tonne cost and freight , undercutting other traders ' offers of between 93.90 and 94.49 dlrs/tonne . An Egyptian trade official in Paris confirmed cancellation of the tender following the Islamic Corp offer , which he said the government had refused for legal reasons . The official denied trade reports that the government might have substituted a private deal with Islamic Corp for the original tender . Reuter 
<TEST	15840	trade>
considerably , underscoring economists ' predictions the sector would post a long awaited recovery this year . The federal government reported today that the monthly surplus soared to 1.25 billion Canadian dlrs in February , double January 's 623 mln dlrs surplus and sharply higher than February 1986 's 189 mln dlr tally . " Hopefully it 's the beginning of a trend , " said Richardson Greenshields of Canada Ltd economist Susan Clark in Toronto . Economists generally do n't expect such large gains over the next months , but are looking for an upward trend throughout the year . " We thought the trade balance would improve over the year , and it certainly looks as if this morning 's figure is indicative of that , " commented economist James Donegan at the Toronto securities firm of Midland Doherty Ltd. Statistics Canada reported the surplus was driven by a 23 pct gain in automobile product exports to a record 3.2 billion dls in the month . " Recovery in the automotive sector helped push the value of exports up by 5.9 pct in February , " the agency said in its monthly report . Total exports expanded to 10.44 billion dlrs from 9.85 billion dlrs in February , while imports slipped to 9.19 billion dlrs from 9.23 billion dlrs . Economists have predicted the 1987 trade surplus would end up three to five billion dlrs higher than last year 's dismal 10.1 billion dlr total . In 1985 the surplus was 17.48 billion dlrs . Money market analysts said the positive trade news touched off a modest rally in the Canadian dollar , which rose to 76.85 U.S. cts on North American markets early this morning after closing at 76.58 cts Wednesday . The currency was hovering around 76.78 cts in early afternoon trading . Economists have been banking on an improved trade performance this year to stimulate an otherwise sluggish Canadian economy . Money market analysts said the positive trade news touched off a modest rally in the Canadian dollar , which rose to 76.85 U.S. cts on North American markets early this morning after closing at 76.58 cts Wednesday . The currency was hovering around 76.78 cts in early afternoon trading . Economists have been banking on an improved trade performance this year to stimulate an otherwise sluggish Canadian economy . They say the country 's consumers , who have been spending at a torrid pace in recent years , will sharply curtail outlays this year and this should help curtail the flow of imports into the country . Meanwhile , demand for Canadian exports in the United States , by far the country 's largest market , is expected to be strong as a result of a projected rise in American consumer spending and the relatively low value of the Canadian currency . " We maintain what 's going to drive Canada 's export performance is income growth in the U.S. , " said Midland 's Donegan . But at the Bank of Nova Scotia , deputy chief economist Warren Jestin was less optimistic about the U.S. outlook and said it could be a mistake to read too much into February 's trade upturn . Jestin said , " Given the fact the U.S. economy is showing signs of weakening--particularly car sales--it would indicate that part of the strength ( in Canada 's trade figures ) is probably transitory . " Reuter 
<TEST	15853	grain	wheat>
Agriculture Department supply/demand projections for the 1986/87 seasons , in mln bushels , with compari sons , unless noted Corn Stocks , Aug 31 , 1987 , at 5,240 , vs 5,595 last month . Stocks , Aug 31 , 1986 , at 4,0 40 , vs 4,0 40 last month . Exports projected at 1,375 , vs 1,250 last month . Exports in 1985/86 at 1,241 , vs 1,241 last month . Domestic use at 5,680 , vs 5,450 last month . Usage in the 1985/86 season at 5,255 , vs 5,255 last month . Wheat Stocks , May 31 , 1987 , projected at 1,848 , vs 1,877 last month . Stocks on May 31 , 1986 , at 1,905 , vs 1,905 last month . Exports in 1986/87 season at 1,025 , vs 1,025 last month . 1985/86 season at 915 , vs 915 last month . Domestic use in 1986/87 at 1,134 , vs 1,105 last month . 1985/86 at 1,045 , vs 1,045 last month . Cotton in mln 480 lb bales Stocks , July 31 , 1987 , at 5.40 , vs 5.49 last month . Stocks July 31 , 1986 , at 9.35 , vs 9.35 last month . Exports in 1986/87 season at 6.66 , vs 6.76 last month . Exports in 1985/86 1.96 , vs 1.96 last month . Soybeans in mln bushels Stocks , Aug 31 , 1987 , projected at 610 , vs 635 last month . Stocks Aug 31 , 1986 , at 536 , vs 536 last month . Soybean crushings during 1986/87 1,130 , vs 1,115 last month . Crushings in 1985/86 at 1,053 , vs 1,053 last month . Exports in 1986/87 season at 700 , vs 700 last month . Exports in 1985/86 at 740 , vs 740 last month . Soybean Oil mln lbs Stocks on Sept 30 , 1987 , at 1,360 , vs 1,200 last month . Stocks on Sept 30 , 1986 , at 947 , vs 947 last month . Exports in 1986/87 at 1,350 , vs 1,350 last month . Exports in 1985/86 at 1,257 , vs 1,257 last month . Soybean Cake/Meal thousand short tons Stocks , Sept 30 , 1987 , at 270 , vs 315 last month . Stocks , Sept 30 , 1986 , at 212 , vs 212 last month . Exports in 1986/87 season at 6,500 , vs 6,350 last month . Exports in 1985/86 at 6,0 36 , vs 6,0 0 8 last month . Reuter 
<TEST	15856	grain	corn>
tonnes of U.S. corn to its previous commitments for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Grain Supply Agreement , which began October 1 , 1986 , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . According to the department 's Export Sales Report , covering transactions in the week ended April 2 , corn transactions consisted of 140,600 tonnes of new sales and changes in destinations for 35,000 tonnes . Total corn commitments to the USSR for delivery in the fourth agreement year amount to 2,825,600 tonnes . The Soviets have not purchased wheat or soybeans in the fourth year of the agreement . Reuter 
<TEST	15860	grain	corn	wheat>
projected carryover free stocks of feedgrains , corn and wheat under loans , with compari sons , as follows , in mln bushels , except feedgrains , which is in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Under Regular Nine Month Loan WHEAT 225 300 678 678 FEEDGRAINS 52.1 68.1 75.7 75.7 CORN 1,800 2,400 2,589 2,589 Special Producer Storage Loan Program WHEAT 165 150 163 163 FEEDGRAINS 7.0 6.7 5.3 5.3 CORN 200 200 147 147 Reuter 
<TEST	15863	grain	wheat	corn>
forecast the Soviet 1986/87 wheat crop at 92.30 mln tonnes , vs 92.30 mln tonnes last month . It put the 1985/86 crop at 78.10 mln tonnes , vs 78.10 mln tonnes last month . Soviet 1986/87 coarse grain production is estimated at 103.30 mln tonnes , vs 103.30 mln tonnes last month . Production in 1985/86 is projected at 99.99 mln tonnes , vs 100.00 mln tonnes last month . USSR wheat imports are forecast at 15.00 mln tonnes in 1986/87 , vs 15.00 mln tonnes last month . Imports in 1985/86 are put at 15.70 mln tonnes , vs 15.70 mln tonnes last month . USDA estimated Soviet 1986/87 coarse grain imports at 12.00 mln tonnes , vs 10.00 mln tonnes last month , and 1985/86 imports at 13.70 mln tonnes , vs 13.70 mln tonnes last month . USDA said Soviet coarse grain imports include 1986/87 corn imports , which it forecast at 8.00 mln tonnes , vs 6.00 mln tonnes last month . Corn imports in 1985/86 are estimated at 10.40 mln tonnes , vs 10.40 mln last month . Total Soviet grain imports in 1986/87 , at 28.0 mln tonnes , include one mln tonnes of miscellaneous grains . Reuter 
<TEST	15864	grain	wheat>
the 1986/87 breakdown of supply and distribution for wheats by classes , in mln bushels , with compari sons , as follows . HARD WINTER 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 1,009 1,009 717 717 Production 1,018 1,018 1,230 1,230 Ttl Supply-X 2,027 2,027 1,947 1,947 Domestic Use 599 579 543 543 Exports 450 475 395 395 Total Use 1,049 1,054 938 938 End Stocks 978 973 1,009 1,009 Note Season begins June 1 . X Includes imports HARD SPRING 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 498 498 371 371 Production 451 451 460 460 Ttl Supply-X 956 956 838 838 Domestic Use 218 192 174 174 Exports 200 190 166 166 Total Use 418 382 340 340 End Stocks 538 574 498 498 Note Season begins June 1 . X Includes imports . SOFT RED 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 79 79 64 64 Production 290 290 368 368 Ttl Supply-X 369 369 432 432 Domestic Use 181 193 204 204 Exports 120 120 149 149 Total Use 301 313 353 353 End Stocks 68 56 79 79 Note Season begins June 1 . X Includes imports WHITE 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 198 198 173 173 Production 232 232 254 254 Ttl Supply-X 433 433 430 430 Domestic Use 82 83 80 80 Exports 170 160 152 152 Total Use 252 243 232 232 End Stocks 181 190 198 198 Note Season begins June 1 . X Includes imports . DURUM 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 121 121 100 100 Production 95 95 113 113 Ttl Supply-X 221 221 218 218 Domestic Use 54 58 44 44 Exports 85 80 53 53 Total Use 139 138 97 97 End Stocks 82 83 121 121 Note Season begins June 1 . X Includes I m ports . Reuter 
<TEST	15866	grain	wheat>
forecast Argentina 's 1986/87 coarse grain crop at 13.99 mln tonnes , vs 15.44 mln tonnes last month . It estimated the 1985/86 crop at 17.06 mln tonnes , vs 17.14 mln last month . USDA forecast Argentina 's 1986/87 wheat crop at 9.00 mln tonnes , vs 9.00 mln tonnes last month , while the 1985/86 crop was projected at 8.50 mln tonnes , vs 8.50 mln last month . USDA forecast Argentine 1986/87 coarse grain exports at 6.60 mln tonnes , vs 7.73 mln tonnes last month , and projected 1985/86 exports at 9.43 mln tonnes , vs 9.58 mln last month . Reuter 
<TEST	15868	grain	wheat>
forecast Australia 's 1986/87 wheat crop at 16.70 mln tonnes , vs 17.30 mln tonnes last month . It estimated 1985/86 output at 16.13 mln tonnes , vs 16.13 mln last month . Australian wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 14.50 mln tonnes , vs 14.50 mln tonnes last month , while exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 15.96 mln tonnes , vs 15.96 mln last month . Reuter 
<TEST	15869	grain	wheat>
projected China 's 1986/87 wheat crop at 90.30 mln tonnes , vs 88.50 mln tonnes last month . It estimated the 1985/86 crop at 85.81 mln tonnes , vs 85.81 mln last month . USDA projected China 's 1986/87 wheat imports at 7.00 mln tonnes , vs 7.00 mln tonnes last month , and estimated 1985/86 imports at 6.60 mln tonnes , vs 6.60 mln last month . Reuter 
<TEST	15870	grain	wheat>
estimated Canada 's 1986/87 wheat crop at 31.85 mln tonnes , vs 31.85 mln tonnes last month . It estimated 1985/86 output at 24.25 mln tonnes , vs 24.25 mln last month . Canadian 1986/87 coarse grain production is projected at 27.62 mln tonnes , vs 27.62 mln tonnes last month . Production in 1985/86 is estimated at 24.95 mln tonnes , vs 24.95 mln last month . Canadian wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 19.00 mln tonnes , vs 19.00 mln tonnes last month . Exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 17.72 mln tonnes , vs 17.71 mln last month . Reuter 
<TEST	15871	grain	corn>
the net change in export commitments , including sales , cancellations , foreign purchases and cumulative exports , in the current seasons through the week ended April 2 , with compari sons , as follows , in tonnes , except as noted 4/2/87 Prev Week All Wheat 119,800 368,300 Corn 1,001,900 927,000 Soybeans 240,500 300, 900 Soy Cake/Meal 117,700 170,200 Soybean Oil 2,400-x 8,100 Cotton-Y 60,200 31,900 x-minus total . Y-running bales . The indicated totals include reported commitments to both named and unnamed destinations , sales on exporters ' own account and optional origin sales plus actual exports already made during the respective marketing seasons . The USDA cautions that reported outstanding sales are subject to modification , deferral or cancellation and it is unlikely that all reported quantities will be exported . USDA gave detailed breakdowns for the 1986/87 and 1987/88 seasons as follows , in thousand tonnes unless stated ( A ) Firm sales to a declared destination . ( B ) Ultimate destination not yet declared . ( C ) Sales made on exporters ' own account . ( D ) Exporter holds option to fill commitment with supplies from origins other than U.S. ( E ) Accumulated exports since season began based on data reported by exporters . ( F ) Indicated total for season . ( G ) USDA-projected exports for season . Note Totals may not add due to rounding . ALL WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/3/87 Prev Wk Named-A 3,157.6 3,684.1 1,591.4 1,635.6 Unnamed-B 143.8 144.3 87.1 57.1 E.O.A.-C 9.5 9.5 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 3,310.9 3,837.9 1,679.0 1,692.7 Ay Expd-E 21,044.6 20, 433.4 Ind Ttl-F 24,355.5 24,271.3 USDAPRJ-G 27,900.0 27,900.0 SOYBEANS 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 1,774.7 1,780.3 215.9 215.9 Unnamed-B 500.3 524.8 nil 30.0 E.O.A.-C 18.4 18.4 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 2,293.4 2,323.5 215.9 245.9 Ay Expd-E 14,334.2 14,183.2 Ind Ttl-F 16,627.6 16,506.7 USDAPRJ-G 19,050.0 19,050.0 CORN 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev WK Named-A 8,559.8 8,684.8 772.1 268.8 Unnamed-B 945.7 920.1 nil nil E.O.A-C 90.8 66.9 nil nil O.O.P-D 138.0 175.0 nil nil Gr Total 9,734.3 9,846.9 772.1 268.8 Ay Expd-E 20, 296.0 19,293.8 Ind Ttl-F 30,0 30.3 29,140.7 USDAPRJ-G 31,750.0 31,750.0 SORGHUM 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev WK Named-A 875.6 805.1 nil nil Unnamed-B 151.2 151.2 10.2-x nil E.O.A-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P-D 114.5 138.3 nil nil Gr Total 1,141.3 1,094.6 10.2-x nil Ay Expd-E 3,222.5 3,149.7 Ind Ttl-F 4,363.8 4,244.3 USDAPRJ-G 5,720.0 5,720.0 x-minus total WHEAT PRODUCTS 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 321.0 401.9 nil nil Unnamed-B nil nil nil nil E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 321.0 401.9 nil nil Ay Expd-E 926.9 840.9 Ind Ttl-F 1,348.2 1,242.8 Note Includes bulgur , sem olina , farina , rolled , cracked and crushed wheat . SOYBEAN OIL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 8.8 10.4 nil nil Unnamed-B 7.0 10.5 nil nil E.O.A-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 15.8 20.9 nil nil Ay Expd-E 138.4 135.8 Ind Ttl-F 154.2 156.7 USDAPRJ-G 610.0 610.0 SOYBEAN CAKE AND MEAL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 788.0 869.7 50.7 48.4 Unnamed-B 76.0 94.0 nil nil E.O.A-C 2.7 6.1 nil nil O.O.P-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 866.7 969.8 50.7 48.4 Ay Expd-E 4,0 98.0 3,880.6 Ind Ttl-F 4,964.7 4,850.4 USDAPRJ-G 5,760.0 5,760.0 COTTONSEED OIL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 7.4 7.2 nil nil Unnamed-B 0.3 0.3 nil nil E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D 7.8 7.8 nil nil Gr Total 15.4 15.2 nil nil ALL UPLAND DOMESTIC RAW COTTON 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 2,007.9 2,076.1 468.2 457.2 Unnamed-B 20.3 20.2 nil nil E.O.A-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P-C nil nil nil nil Gr Total 2,028.2 2,096.3 468.2 457.2 Ay Expd-E 4,333.1 4,204.7 Ind Ttl-F 6,361.3 6,301.0 USDAPRJ-G 6,335.0 6,335.0 Y-In thousand running bales . BARLEY 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 559.5 584.5 nil nil Unnamed-B 12.7 12.7 nil nil E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D 25.0 25.0 nil nil Gr Total 597.1 622.1 nil nil Ay Expt-E 2,464.6 2,440.7 Ind Ttl-F 3,061.7 3,062.8 USDAPRJ-G 3,270.0 3,270.0 OATS 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A nil nil nil nil Unnamed-B nil nil nil nil E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total nil nil nil nil Ay Expd-E 2.4 2.4 Ind Ttl-F 2.4 2.4 USDAPRJ-G 30.0 30.0 RICE 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 347.6 369.1 nil nil Unnamed-B 1.0 1.0 nil nil E.O.A-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 348.6 370.1 nil nil Ay Expd-E 1,718.8 1,688.2 Ind Ttl-F 2,067.4 2,058.3 USDAPRJ-G 2,580.0 2,580.0 HARD RED WINTER WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 1,738.0 2,019.7 893.0 943.0 Unnamed-B 80.5 70.5 107.6 77.2 E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 1,818.5 2,090.2 1,000.6 1,020.2 Ay Exp-E 8,332.1 7,974.5 Ind Tl-F 10,150.6 10,0 64.8 WHITE WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 548.5 635.6 58.0 58.0 Unnamed-B 19.0-x 19.0-x 6.0-x 6.0-x E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 529.5 616.6 52.0 52.0 Ay Exp-E 3,831.5 3,757.7 Ind Tl-F 4,361.0 4,374.3 x denotes minus figure HARD RED SPRING WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 576.6 620.6 164.7 164.7 Unnamed-B 29.6 16.0 nil nil E.O.A.-C 0.9 0.9 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 607.1 637.5 164.7 164.7 Ay Exp-E 4,312.4 4,247.6 Ind Tl-F 4,919.5 4,885.1 DURUM WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 166.6 280.3 93.4 93.4 Unnamed-B 52.8 76.9 nil nil E.O.A.-C 2.8 2.8 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 222.2 360.0 93.4 93.4 Ay Exp-E 1,842.6 1,727.5 Ind Tl-F 2,064.8 2,087.5 SOFT RED WINTER WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 127.8 127.8 382.3 376.5 Unnamed-B nil nil 14.0-x 14.0-x E.O.A.-C 5.8 5.8 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 133.6 133.6 368.3 362.5 Ay Exp-E 2,726.0 2,726.0 Ind Tl-F 2,859.6 2,859.6 x-minus figure Country and destinations of the identified sales of commodities reported by exporters in week ended April 2 for the respective marketing seasons were detailed by the USDA as follows , with comparisons for the previous week , in thousands of tonnes , except where noted-- ALL WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. nil nil 50.0 50.0 Other West Europe 218.8 236.8 nil nil East Europe 261.0 346.0 25.0 25.0 ALL WHEAT Continued 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk USSR nil nil nil nil Japan 490.4 662.2 nil nil China 90.0 90.0 910.0 910.0 Taiwan 115.0 141.0 144.0 144.0 Other Asia and Oceania 654.9 730.9 28.6 78.6 Africa 959.5 1,115.0 167.1 167.1 Western Hemisphere 367.9 362.1 266.7 260.9 SOYBEANS 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 302.2 317.7 91.4 91.4 Other West Europe 25.0 25.0 nil nil East Europe 101.0 101.0 nil nil Japan 355.4 330.5 nil nil China nil nil nil nil Taiwan 472.0 499.0 87.0 87.0 Other Asia and Oceania 164.6 187.7 nil nil Africa nil nil nil nil Western Hemisphere 354.4 391.5 37.5 37.5 SOYBEAN OIL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 1.5 1.5 nil nil India nil nil nil nil Other Asia and Oceania nil nil nil nil Africa nil nil nil nil Western Hemisphere 7.3 8.9 nil nil SOYBEAN CAKE/M EAL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 301.7 350.7 47.2 45.0 Other West Europe nil nil nil nil East Europe nil 36.0 nil nil Japan nil 3.5 nil nil Other Asia and Oceania 25.0 40.0 nil nil Africa 30.2 38.0 nil nil Western Hemisphere 431.0 401.5 3.4 3.4 CORN 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 82.5 22.5 0.2 0.2 Other West Europe nil 0.8 nil nil E. Europe 94.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 USSR 2,432.7 2,543.8 nil nil Japan 2,767.4 2,787.8 52.4 21.0 China 495.0 555.0 nil nil Taiwan 791.0 836.0 390.0 170.0 Other Asia and Oceania 721.7 615.2 250.0 nil Africa 125.0 195.5 nil nil WestHem 1,050.5 1,114.0 29.4 27.6 UPLAND COTTON ( In thousand bales ) 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 260.9 266.1 97.9 95.0 Other West Europe 62.2 66.2 8.7 8.7 E. Europe 3.1 3.1 nil nil Japan 445.8 484.1 72.3 70.1 Taiwan 377.9 390.4 41.6 39.5 Other Asia and Oceania 741.7 783.4 244.5 241.1 Africa 16.7 13.4 nil nil Western Hemisphere 99.6 69.5 3.2 2.7 Reuter 
<TEST	15874	grain	wheat>
forecast the European Community 's 1986/87 wheat crop at 71.60 mln tonnes , vs 71.50 mln tonnes last month . It estimated 1985/86 output at 71.70 mln tonnes , vs 71.71 mln last month . E.C. 1986/87 coarse grain production is projected at 81.22 mln tonnes , vs 81.19 mln tonnes last month . The 1985/86 crop is estimated at 88.21 mln tonnes , vs 88.28 mln last month . E.C. wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 28.22 mln tonnes , vs 28.31 mln tonnes last month . Exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 27.77 mln tonnes , vs 27.62 last month . Reuter 
<TEST	15875	grain	corn	wheat>
the following supply/demand projections for the 1986/87 seasons , in mln bushels , with compari sons , unless noted CORN 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage ( mln acres ) Planted 76.7 76.7 83.4 83.4 Harvested 69.2 69.2 75.2 75.2 Yield ( bu ) 119.3 119.3 118.0 118.0 Supply ( mln bu ) Start Stock 4,0 40 4,0 40 1,648 1,648 Production 8,253 8,253 8,877 8,877 Total-X 12,295 12,295 10,536 10,536 X Includes imports . CORN ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage Feed 4,500 4,300 4,0 95 4,126 Other 1,180 1,150 1,160 1,129 Ttl Domest 5,680 5,450 5,255 5,255 Exports 1,375 1,250 1,241 1,241 Total Use 7,055 6,700 6,496 6,496 End Stocks 5,240 5,595 4,0 40 4,0 40 Farmer Reser 1,400 1,300 564 564 CCC Stocks 1,700 1,500 546 546 Free Stocks 2,140 2,795 2,930 2,930 AvgPrice 1.35-1.65 1.35-1.65 2.23 2.23 Note Price in dlrs per bu . Corn season begins Sept 1 . ALL WHEAT 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage ( mln acres ) Planted 72.0 72.0 75.6 75.6 Harvested 60.7 60.7 64.7 64.7 Yield 34.4 34.4 37.5 37.5 Supply ( mln bu ) Start Stcks 1,905 1,905 1,425 1,425 Production 2,087 2,087 2,425 2,425 Total Supply-X 4,0 0 7 4,0 0 7 3,865 3,865 X Includes imports . ALL WHEAT 1986/87 1985/86 ( cont . ) 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage Food 700 690 678 678 Seed 84 90 93 93 Feed 350 325 274 274 Ttl Domest 1,134 1,105 1,045 1,045 Exports 1,025 1,025 915 915 Total Use 2,159 2,130 1,960 1,960 End Stocks 1,848 1,877 1,905 1,905 Farmer Reser 475 450 433 433 CCC Stocks 950 950 602 602 Free Stocks 423 477 870 870 Avg Price 2.30-40 2.30-40 3.08 3.08 Note Price in dlrs per bushel . Wheat season begins June 1 . SOYBEANS 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage ( mln acres ) Planted 61.5 61.5 63.1 61.1 Harvested 59.4 59.4 61.6 61.6 Yield ( bu ) 33.8 33.8 34.1 34.1 Supply ( mln bu ) Start Stocks 536 536 316 316 Production 2,007 2,007 2,099 2,099 Total 2,543 2,543 2,415 2,415 SOYBEANS ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage Crushings 1,130 1,115 1,053 1,053 Exports 700 700 740 740 Seed , Feed and Residual 103 93 86 86 Total Use 1,933 1,908 1,879 1,879 End Stocks 610 635 536 536 Avg Price 4.60-4.80 4.60-4.80 5.05 5.05 Note Average price in dlrs per bushel . Soybean season begins June 1 . FEEDGRAINS X 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage ( mln acres ) Planted 119.8 119.8 128.1 128.1 Harvested 102.0 102.0 111.8 111.8 Yld ( tonnes ) 2.48 2.48 2.45 2.45 Supply ( mln tonnes ) Start Stocks 126.4 126.4 57.5 57.5 Production 252.4 252.4 274.4 274.4 Imports 0.6 0.6 0.9 0.9 Total 379.4 379.4 332.7 332.7 X Includes corn , sorghum , barley , oats . FEEDGRAINS X ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage Feed 140.6 136.2 134.8 135.5 Other 35.8 35.0 35.0 34.3 Ttl Domest 176.4 171.2 169.8 169.8 Exports 43.9 40.8 36.6 36.6 Total Use 220.3 211.9 206.4 206.4 End Stocks 159.1 167.5 126.4 126.4 Farmer Reser 39.0 36.5 16.6 16.6 CCC Stocks 55.2 49.5 20.4 20.4 Free Stocks 64.8 81.5 89.3 89.3 X Includes corn , sorghum , oats , barley . Seasons for oats , barley began June 1 , corn and sorghum Sept 1 . SOYBEAN OIL 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Supply ( mln lbs ) Start Stcks 947 947 632 632 Production 12,263 12,103 11,617 11,617 Imports Nil Nil 8 8 Total 13,210 13,050 12,257 12,257 Note 1985/86 production estimates based on October year crush of 1,060 mln bushels . SOYBEAN OIL ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage ( mln lbs ) Domestic 10,500 10,500 10,0 53 10,0 53 Exports 1,350 1,350 1,257 1,257 Total 11,850 11,850 11,310 11,310 End Stcks 1,360 1,200 947 947 AvgPrice 14.5-16.0 15.0-17.0 18.00 18.00 Note Average price in cents per lb . Season for soybean oil begins Oct 1 . SOYBEAN CAKE/M E AL , in thousand short tons 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 212 212 387 387 Production 26,558 26,203 24,951 24,951 Total 26,770 26,415 25,338 25,338 Note 1985/86 production estimates based on October year crush of 1,060 mln bushels . SOY CAKE/M EAL ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage ( thous short tons ) Domestic 20,000 19,750 19,090 19,118 Exports 6,500 6,350 6,0 36 6,0 0 8 Total 26,500 26,100 25,126 25,126 End Stcks 270 315 212 212 AvgPrice 145-150 145-150 154.90 154.90 Note Price in dlrs per short ton . Season for soybean cake and meal begins Oct 1 . COTTON 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Area ( mln acres ) Planted 10.06 10.06 10.68 10.68 Harvested 8.49 8.49 10.23 10.23 Yield ( lbs ) 549 553 630 630 Supply ( mln 480-lb bales ) Start Stks-X 9.35 9.35 4.10 4.10 Production 9.70 9.79 13.43 13.43 Ttl Supply-Y 19.06 19.14 17.57 17.57 X Based on Census Bureau data . Y Includes imports . COTTON ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage Domestic 7.10 7.01 6.40 6.40 Exports 6.66 6.76 1.96 1.96 Total 13.76 13.77 8.36 8.36 End Stocks 5.40 5.49 9.35 9.35 Avge Price 51.7-X 51.7-X 56.50 56.50 X 1986/87 price is weighted average for first five months of marketing year , not a projection for 1986/87 . Average price in cents per lb . Cotton season begins August 1 . RICE 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage ( mln acres ) Planted 2.40 2.40 2.51 2.51 Harvested 2.38 2.38 2.49 2.49 Yield ( lbs ) 5,648 5,648 5,414 5,414 Supply ( mln cwts ) Start Stcks 77.3 77.3 64.7 64.7 Production 134.4 134.4 134.9 134.9 Imports 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 Total 213.9 213.9 201.8 201.8 RICE ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage ( mln cwts ) Domestic 67.0 67.0 65.8 65.8 Exports 80.0 80.0 58.7 58.7 Total-Y 147.0 147.0 124.5 124.5 End Stocks 66.9 66.9 77.3 77.3 CCC Stocks 42.9 42.9 41.5 41.5 Free Stocks 24.0 24.0 35.8 35.8 AvgPrice 3.45-4.25 3.45-4.25 6.53 6.53 Note Average price in dlrs per CWT . Y-Rough equivalent . N.A.-Not Available , USDA revising price definition due to marketing loan . Rice season begins August 1 . SORGHUM 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Yield ( bu ) 67.7 67.7 66.8 66.8 Supply ( mln bu ) Start Stcks 551 551 300 300 Production 942 942 1,120 1,120 Total 1,493 1,493 1,420 1,420 Usage ( mln bu ) Feed 550 575 662 662 Other 30 30 29 29 Ttl Domest 580 605 691 691 SORGHUM ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Exports 225 225 178 178 Total Use 805 830 869 869 End Stocks 688 663 551 551 Avge Price 1.30-50 1.30-50 1.93 1.93 Note Price in dlrs per bushel . Sorghum season begins Sept 1 . BARLEY 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Yield ( bu ) 50.8 50.8 51.0 51.0 Start Stocks 325 325 247 247 Production 610 610 591 591 Imports 5 5 9 9 Total 941 941 847 847 BARLEY ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/15/87 04/09/87 03/15/87 Usage ( mln bu ) Feed 300 300 333 333 Other 175 175 167 167 Ttl Domest 475 475 500 500 Exports 150 150 22 22 Total Use 625 625 522 522 End Stocks 316 316 325 325 AvgPrice 1.45-65 1.45-65 1.98 1.98 Note Average price in dlrs per bushel . Barley season begins June 1 . OATS in mln bushels 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Yield ( bu ) 56.0 56.0 63.7 63.7 Start Stcks 184 184 180 180 Production 385 385 521 521 Imports 30 30 28 28 Total 598 598 729 729 OATS , in mln bushels ( cont . ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage Feed 400 400 460 460 Other 85 85 83 83 Ttl Domes 485 485 543 543 Exports 2 2 2 2 Total 487 487 545 545 End Stcks 111 111 184 184 AvgPrice 1.00-20 1.00-20 1.23 1.23 Note Average price in dlrs per bushel . Oats season begins June 1 . LONG GRAIN RIC E , in mln CWTs ( 100 lbs ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Harvested Acres ( mln ) 1.83 1.83 1.94 1.94 Yield ( lbs ) 5,358 5,358 5,168 5,168 Start Stks 49.3 49.3 37.7 37.7 Production 97.8 97.8 100.4 100.4 Ttl Supply 148.6 148.6 140.1 140.1 Note Starting Stocks does not include broken kernels Supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns . Total Supply includes imports but not broken kernels . LONG GRAIN RIC E , in mln CWTs ( 100 lbs ) , cont . 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Domestic Use 43.0 43.0 48.8 48.8 Exports 65.0 60.0 42.0 42.0 Total Use 108.0 103.0 90.8 90.8 End Stocks-X 40.6 45.6 49.3 49.3 AvgPric 3.45-4.25 3.45-4.24 6.86 6.86 Note Average price in dlrs per cwt . X-Broken kernels not included supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns . Rice season begins August 1 . ME DIUM , SHORT GRAIN RICE in mln CWTs ( 100 lbs ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Harvested Acres ( mln ) 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 Yield ( lbs ) 6,651 6,651 6,258 6,258 Start Stks 26.7 26.7 25.7 25.7 Production 36.6 36.6 34.5 34.5 Ttl Supply 65.3 65.3 61.7 61.7 Note Starting Stocks does not include broken kernels Supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns . Total Supply includes imports but not broken kernels . ME DIUM , SHORT GRAIN RIC E , in mln CWTs ( 100 lbs ) , cont . 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Domestic Use 24.0 24.0 17.0 17.0 Exports 15.0 20.0 16.7 16.7 Total Use 39.0 44.0 33.7 33.7 End Stocks-X 24.5 19.5 26.7 26.7 AvgPric 3.45-4.25 3.45-4.25 5.91 5.91 Note Average price in dlrs per CWT . X-Broken kernels not included supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns . Rice season begins August 1 . NOTES ON U.S. SUPPLY/D EMAND TABLES N.A. Not available . Totals may not add due to rounding . Figures for 1986/87 are midpoint of USDA range . Feed usage for corn , wheat , soybean , feedgrains , sorghum , barley , oats includes residual amount . Residual amount included in rice and medium/short grain rice domestic usage . Rice , long grain , and medium/short grain rice average price for 1985/86 estimates and 1986/87 projections are market prices and exclude cash retained under the marketing loan since April , 1986 . Reuter 
<TEST	15877	grain	corn>
forecast South Africa 's 1986/87 corn crop at 8.50 mln tonnes , vs 9.50 mln tonnes last month . It estimated the 1985/86 crop at 8.08 mln , vs 8.08 mln last month . USDA forecast South African 1986/87 corn exports at 2.10 mln tonnes , vs 3.00 mln tonnes last month , and 1985/86 exports at 2.75 mln tonnes , vs 2.75 mln tonnes last month . Reuter 
<TEST	15890	grain	wheat	corn>
between start of current seasons and April 2 , with compari sons , as reported to USDA by exporters , in thousand tonnes , unless noted 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/3/86 Wheat 21,044.6 20, 398.3 19,725.8 Soybeans 14,334.2 14,063.5 14,698.4 Corn 20, 296.0 19,194.6 25,182.6-x Sorghum 3,222.5 3,149.7 3,168.9-x Soybean Oil 138.4 135.8 179.9 Soybean Meal 4,0 98.0 3,880.6 3,141.3 Cotton 4,333.1 4,204.7 1,510.4 X 2,059,300 tonnes of corn and 763,800 tonnes of sorghum added to reflect change in marketing year to Sept-Aug . Reuter 
<TEST	15893	grain	wheat>
increased its estimate of 1986/87 grain purchases by the Soviet Union to 28 mln tonnes , up two mln tonnes from last month . In its monthly report on the Soviet grain situation , the USDA said imports will be higher than earlier estimated because Soviet grain buyers have been actively purchasing in the last month . USDA said the increased purchasing is " somewhat surprising " because of recent higher Soviet crop estimates . All of the increase in estimated imports will be in corn , USDA said . Of the 28 mln tonnes total , 15 mln tonnes will be wheat , 12 mln tonnes coarse grains , and the remaining one mln tonnes miscellaneous grains and pulses , USDA said . USDA noted that the Soviet winter grain crop suffered through a severe winter and spring field work has been delayed . The severe winter " is believed to have resulted in above average winter-kill , " USDA said . Some grain trade analysts have said abnormal winter losses maybe one reason why the Soviet Union has been actively buying grain recently . USDA said Moscow already has purchased over 25 mln tonnes grain for delivery in 1986/87 , including 14 mln tonnes wheat and 12 mln tonnes coarse grain . Reuter 
<TEST	15906	grain	wheat	corn>
the following 1986/87 projections in its world Supply/Demand report , with compari sons , in mln tonnes , except where noted Total World Grain 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Produc 1,682.31 1,686.11 1,663.69 1,663.70 Total Supply 2,025.71 2,028.45 1,919.18 1,920.13 Trade-X 212.15 211.89 204.42 203.92 Usage 1,635.01 1,630.40 1,575.78 1,577.79 End Stks 390.70 398.05 343.40 342.34 X-Based on export estimate . All Wheat 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stks 137.05 136.48 125.54 125.87 Production 529.20 528.40 498.97 498.81 Imports 97.57 98.27 94.56 94.36 Feed Use 101.79 100.82 90.19 90.56 Total Domes 517.26 514.89 487.45 488.20 Exports 101.08 101.20 95.92 95.76 End Stocks 148.99 149.99 137.05 136.48 Note World imports/exports may not balance due to differing marketing years , grains in transit and reporting discrepancies . Coarse Grain 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 181.64 181.10 107.80 108.40 Production 835.21 838.82 844.60 844.84 Imports 95.66 93.77 95.70 95.18 Feed Use 514.07 510.20 510.20 510.80 Total Domes 796.33 793.64 770.76 772.14 Exports 98.97 98.47 96.02 95.76 End Stocks 220 .52 226.28 181.64 181.10 Note World imports/exports may not balance due to differing marketing years , grain in transit and reporting discrepancies . Corn ( Mln Tonnes ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 123.08 123.11 61.09 61.75 Production 477.26 480.29 481.86 481.92 Imports 61.03 58.59 62.12 62.08 Feed Use 295.49 289.47 286.53 287.42 Ttl Domes 444.78 439.80 419.88 420.55 Exports 62.80 62.10 62.53 62.15 End Stocks 155.56 163.61 123.08 123.11 Note World imports/exports may not balance due to differing marketing years , grain in transit and reporting discrepancies . Soybeans 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 23.03 22.84 17.59 17.58 Production 99.98 99.43 96.74 96.53 Imports 26.21 26.27 27.08 27.08 Crushings 79.69 79.33 76.16 76.15 Ttl Domes 97.53 96.40 92.36 92.34 Exports 26.45 26.43 26.02 26.01 End Stocks 25.23 25.71 23.03 22.84 Note Imports and exports do not balance due to differing marketing years and time lags between reported exports and imports . Soybean Meal 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 2.55 2.47 2.79 2.74 Production 62.71 62.40 60.09 60.09 Imports 23.47 23.49 23.48 23.47 Consumption 62.69 62.49 61.06 61.10 Exports 23.51 23.39 22.76 22.74 End Stocks 2.52 2.47 2.55 2.47 Note Imports and exports may not balance due to differing marketing years and time lags between reported exports and imports . Soybean Oil 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 1.61 1.51 1.37 1.36 Production 14.20 14.13 13.65 13.66 Imports 3.31 3.29 3.08 3.05 Consumption 14.02 14.03 13.33 13.40 Exports 3.33 3.35 3.15 3.16 End Stocks 1.78 1.54 1.61 1.51 Note Imports and exports do not balance due to differing marketing years and time lags between reported exports and imports . Cotton ( Mln Bales ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 45.87 48.14 42.70 43.11 Production 69.53 69.66 78.94 78.92 Imports 23.07 23.07 21.49 21.45 Mill Use 80.72 77.08 76.84 74.79 Exports 23.37 23.50 20.25 20.28 End Stocks 34.16 39.99 45.87 48.14 Note Imports and exports may not balance due to cotton in transit and reporting discrepancies in some countries . Rice ( M illed Basis ) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 24.71 24.75 22.16 22.16 Production 317.90 318.90 320.12 320.05 Imports 10.56 10.63 11.68 11.70 Dom . Use 321.41 321.87 317.58 317.46 Exports 12.11 12.22 12.49 12.39 End Stocks 21.19 21.78 24.71 24.75 Reuter 
<TEST	15910	grain	corn>
detailed world supply/demand data for major importers and exporters of corn , by country , as follows in mln tonnes USSR CORN 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. Production 12.50 12.50 14.40 14.40 Imports 8.00 6.00 10.40 10.40 Domes Use 20.50 19.50 24.40 24.40 Exports Nil Nil Nil Nil End Stocks N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. Not Available . SOUTH AFRICA CORN , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 1.20 1.20 1.87 1.87 Production 8.50 9.50 8.08 8.08 Imports Nil Nil 0.01 0.01 Domes Use 6.10 6.20 6.00 6.00 Exports 2.10 3.00 2.75 2.75 End Stocks 1.50 1.50 1.20 1.20 EC-12 CORN , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 5.17 5.28 2.89 2.89 Production 25.00 25.03 25.70 25.78 Imports 10.69 10.61 12.82 12.82 Domes Use 28.20 29.00 29.46 29.60 Exports 7.91 7.94 6.78 6.61 End Stocks 4.75 3.98 5.17 5.28 ARGENTINA CORN , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.52 0.39 0.39 0.39 Production 10.00 11.00 12.10 12.10 Imports Nil Nil Nil Nil Domes Use 4.60 4.60 4.60 4.60 Exports 5.70 6.50 7.37 7.50 End Stocks 0.22 0.29 0.52 0.39 THAILAND CORN , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 0.43 0.33 0.11 0.11 Production 4.10 4.10 5.35 5.15 Imports Nil Nil Nil Nil Domestic Use 1.55 1.35 1.35 1.25 Exports 2.80 3.00 3.67 3.67 End Stocks 0.18 0.08 0.43 0.33 JAPAN CORN , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 1.24 1.24 1.06 1.06 Production Nil Nil Nil Nil Imports 15.50 15.44 14.55 14.55 Domes Use 15.51 15.45 14.37 14.37 Exports Nil Nil Nil Nil End Stocks 1.24 1.24 1.24 1.24 Reuter 
<TEST	15911	grain	wheat	corn>
private U.S. exporters reported sales of 200,000 tonnes of wheat to Jordan , 300,000 tonnes of soybean meal to Iraq and 100,000 tonnes of corn to Algeria . The wheat for Jordan includes 165,000 tonnes of hard red winter and 35,000 tonnes of soft red winter and is for delivery during the 1987/88 marketing year . The soybean meal sales to Iraq includes 180,000 tonnes for delivery during the 1986/87 season and 120,000 tonnes during the 1987/88 season , the department said . The 100,000 tonnes of corn sales to Algeria are for delivery during the 1986/87 season , it said . The marketing year for wheat begins June 1 , corn September 1 , and soybean meal October 1 . Reuter 
<TEST	15914	grain>
detailed world supply/demand data for major importers and exporters of coarse grains , by country , as follows in mln tonnes USSR COARSE GRAIN 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. Production 103.30 103.30 99.99 99.99 Imports 12.00 10.00 13.70 13.70 Domes Use 112.30 112.30 111.99 111.99 Exports NIL NIL NIL NIL End Stocks N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. Not Available . EC-12 COARSE GRAIN , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 14.91 14.93 10.53 10.53 Production 81.22 81.19 88.21 88.28 Imports 16.58 17.26 18.29 18.24 Dom Use 79.64 81.27 82.38 82.55 Exports 19.90 19.96 19.73 19.56 End Stocks 13.18 12.15 14.91 14.93 EASTERN EUROPE COARSE GRAIN , mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 4.07 3.72 5.14 5.14 Production 73.95 74.50 68.28 68.38 Imports 4.90 4.47 5.58 5.26 Dom Use 73.04 73.23 72.65 72.77 Exports 3.55 3.55 2.28 2.28 End Stocks 6.34 5.46 4.07 3.72 JAPAN COARSE GRAIN , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 2.32 2.23 1.91 1.91 Production 0.35 0.35 0.39 0.39 Imports 21.56 21.50 21.51 21.51 Dom Use 21.79 21.73 21.49 21.49 Exports NIL NIL NIL NIL End Stocks 2.44 2.44 2.32 2.32 ARGENTINA COARSE GRAIN , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.78 0.53 0.83 0.83 Production 13.99 15.44 17.06 17.14 Imports 0.02 NIL NIL NIL Domes Use 7.73 7.75 7.76 7.87 Exports 6.60 7.73 9.43 9.58 End Stocks 0.46 0.49 0.78 0.53 CANADA COARSE GRAIN , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 6.19 6.19 4.66 4.61 Production 27.62 27.62 24.95 24.95 Imports 0.30 0.30 0.31 0.31 Dom Use 19.80 19.80 18.99 18.96 Exports 7.41 7.21 4.74 4.72 End Stocks 6.90 7.10 6.19 6.19 THAILAND COARSE GRAINS , in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.49 0.38 0.16 0.16 Production 4.40 4.40 5.67 5.47 Imports NIL NIL NIL NIL Domes Use 1.57 1.37 1.40 1.30 Exports 3.10 3.30 3.94 3.95 End Stocks 0.22 0.11 0.49 0.38 Reuter 
<TEST	15916	grain	wheat>
( CCC ) accepted eight bonus offers from two exporters on sales of 190,000 tonnes of hard red winter and 35,000 tonnes of soft red winter wheat to Jordan , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . The department said the bonuses awarded averaged 38.08 dlrs per tonne and the wheat is for delivery May-N ovember , 1987 . The bonus awards were made to Louis Dreyfus Corp ( 200,000 tonnes ) , and Continental Grain Co ( 25,000 tonnes ) and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks . The purchases of U.S. wheat completes the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced on December 31 , 1986 . Reuter 
<TEST	15917	grain	wheat	corn>
figures show 1986/87 crop export registrations of grains and oilseeds in the week to April 8 , were as follows , in tonnes , compared with the previous week and the comparable week a year earlier . BREAD WHEAT nil nil nil MAIZE 113,500 21,800 51,300 SORGHUM 13,600 nil 26,500 SOYBEAN 30,000 36,000 72,000 SUNFLOWERSEED nil nil 19,100 Cumulative figures export registrations for the 1986/87 crop to April 8 , 1987 , with comparative figures for the 1985/86 crop up to April 9 , 1986 , in brackets , were in thousands of tonnes . BREAD WHEAT 2,692,4 ( 4,161.0 ) MAIZE 2,305.1 ( 5,200.0 ) SORGHUM 220.5 ( 625.7 ) SOYBEAN 561.3 ( 524.5 ) SUNFLOWERSEED 45.7 ( 213.2 ) REUTER 
<TEST	15927	grain	wheat>
( CCC ) accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 12,500 tonnes of U.S. wheat flour to Iraq , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . The department said the bonus awarded was 105.82 dlrs per tonne and the wheat flour is for shipment July 1-10 , 1987 . The bonus was awarded to The Pillsbury Company and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks . An additional 150,000 tonnes of wheat flour is still available to Iraq under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced January 7 , 1987 , the department said . Reuter 
<TEST	15928	grain>
detailed rice supply/demand milled-basis data for Thailand , the world 's major rice exporter , as follows in mln tonnes 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 1.32 1.33 1.46 1.46 Production 11.88 12.14 13.00 13.00 Imports NIL NIL NIL NIL Domes Use 8.73 8.73 8.80 8.80 Exports 3.70 3.70 4.34 4.34 End Stocks 0.77 1.04 1.32 1.33 Reuter 
<TEST	15939	crude>
foreign oil sources may reach record levels by the mid-1990s , according to John H. Lichtblau , president of Petroleum Industry Research Associates . Lichtblau , speaking at an alternative energy conference here , said the U.S. may depend on foreign suppliers for as much as 52 pct of its oil by 1995 , surpasssing the previous high level of 47 pct in 1977 . " The long term growth in dependency on foreign oil is inevitable , " Lichtblau said . As much as 30 pct of U.S. oil imports in 1995 could come from OPEC nations , he said . Lichtblau said the U.S. depended on foreign suppliers for 33 pct of its oil in 1986 and predicted that would increase to 40 pct by 1990 . " However , the rate of this growth can be affected positively or negatively through government action or inaction , " Lichtblau said . He said that one of the government 's negative actions is the maintenance of the windfall profits tax which acts as a disincentive to developing existing fields and reduces cash flow for oil exploration . Lichtblau called for the adoption of an international floor price for crude oil to help stabilize world oil prices . " An international floor price adopted by all or most industrial countries would clearly be a much more effective measure and would be much less distortive for the U.S. than if we imposed it alone , " Lichtblau said . Development of alternate energy sources such as synthetic fuels as well as increased development in Alaska could lessen U.S. dependency on foreign oil , Lichtblau said . A potential for alternative supplies could limit the willingness of OPEC nations to raise oil prices , he said . Lichtblau also called for the federal government to offer tax abatements for oil drilling , to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve at a faster rate and to develop pilot plans for alternative energy . Reuter 
<TEST	15952	grain	wheat	corn>
reported the farmer-owned reserve national five-day average price through April 8 as follows ( Dlrs/Bu-Sorghum Cwt ) Natl Loan Release Call Avge Rate-X Level Price Price Wheat 2.62 2.40 IV 4.65 V 4.65 VI 4.45 Corn 1.38 1.92 IV 3.15 3.15 V 3.25 X 1986 Rates . Natl Loan Release Call Avge Rate-X Level Price Price Oats 1.58 0.99 V 1.65 Barley 1.55 1.56 IV 2.55 2.55 V 2.65 Sorghum 2.54 3.25-Y IV 5.36 5.36 V 5.54 Reserves I , II and III have matured . Level IV reflects grain entered after Oct 6 , 1981 for feedgrain and after July 23 , 1981 for wheat . Level V wheat/barley after 5/14/ 82 , corn/sorghum after 7/1/82 . Level VI covers wheat entered after January 19 , 1984 . X-1986 rates . Y-dlrs per CWT ( 100 lbs ) . Reuter 
<TEST	15964	crude>
said it , Du Pont Co 's Conoco Inc subsidiary and <Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V. > have been offered four exploration blocks offshore The Netherlands . Louisiana Land said Blocks Q4a , E12c and E15b were offered to the group in which Conoco has a 67.5 pct interest , Louisiana Land 20 pct and Orange-Nassau 12.5 pct , while this group along with a consortium headed by Pennzoil Co <PZL> were offered Block Q5c . The offers were the result of applications submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the Netherlands Sixth Offshore Licensing Round . Louisiana Land said the Conoco group intends to provide a formal acceptance of the blocks with plans to start exploration this year . The company also said the two Q blocks immediately offset other offshore blocks on which hydrocarbons have been found in commercial quantities . Reuter 
<TEST	15975	grain>
tonnes in the week ended April 2 were eight pct above the prior week , but 25 pct below the four-week average , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . In comments on its latest Export Sales Report , the department said Iraq , Japan and the USSR were the largest buyers . Sales for the next marketing year , which begins September 1 , totaled 503,200 tonnes and were mainly to Iraq and Taiwan . Wheat sales of 119,300 tonnes for the current season and net reductions of 13,700 tonnes for the 1987/88 season were four-fifths below the combined total for the prior week and the four-week average , it said . Sri Lanka was the most active wheat destination with purchases of 52,500 tonnes for the current year , it said . Other significant purchasers for the current year were Mexico and Honduras , it said . Soybean sales of 240,500 tonnes were one-fifth below the prior week and nearly one-third below the four-week average . Japan , Mexico , South Korea , Italy and Israel were the major purchasers , the department said . Net sales of 117,700 tonnes of soybean cake and meal fell 31 pct from the previous week and 38 pct below the four-week average . Major increases for West Germany , Venezuela , the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia were partially offset by reductions for unknown destinations , USDA said . Activity in soybean oil resulted in decreases of 2,400 tonnes , with sales to unknown destinations down by 2,700 tonnes , while sales to Canada increased 200 tonnes , the Department said . Combined sales of 71,300 running bales of cotton 60,200 bales for the current season and 11,100 bales for 1987/88 season were four-fifths higher than the prior week 's level but nine pct below the four-week average . Mexico was the dominant buyer for the current year followed by Zaire , Italy , and Spain , the department said . The primary buyers for the 1987/88 season were South Korea , Spain , Japan and Taiwan , the department said . Sorghum sales of 143,300 tonnes were 25 pct less than the prior week , with Japan and Venezuela the main buyers . Reuter 
<TEST	15999	grain	corn>
corn shipped to the Soviet Union in the week ended April 2 , according to the U.S. Agriculture Department 's latest Export Sales report . That compares with 106,200 tonnes shipped in the prior week . There were no wheat or soybean shipments during the week . The USSR has purchased 2,825,600 tonnes of U.S. corn , as of April 2 , for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement . Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement , which ended September 30 , amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat , 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans . Reuter 
<TEST	16005	crude>
refineries rose sharply in Europe and firmed in the U.S. last Friday from the previous week but fell sharply in Singapore , according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline . The firmer tone to refining margins in Europe and the U.S. relected higher prices for petroleum products , particularly gasoline , and support from crude oil prices . Netback values for crude oil refined in Northern Europe rose substantially following strong gains in gasoline prices there . Brent is valued at 19.45 dlrs , up 56 cts a barrel or three pct from the previous week . In the U.S. Gulf , sweet crudes rose in value by 14 cts to 19.33 dlrs for West Texas Intermediate , up about 0.7 pct . Sour grades in the U.S. Gulf showed an increase of 33 cts a barrel for Alaska North Slope , up 1.7 pct . But netbacks for crude oil refined in Singapore fell sharply , down 15 cts to as much as 68 cts a barrel as ample distillate supplies weighed on petroleum product prices . Attaka in Singapore is valued at 18.55 dlrs , a decline of 68 cts a barrel or 3.5 pct from the previous week . For refineries in the Mediterranean , netback values were mostly lower , with declines of seven to 14 cts . The value of Kuwait crude fell 14 cts to 18.37 dlrs , while Iranian Light fell 11 cts to 19.14 dlrs . On the U.S. West Coast , netback values for ANS CIF L.A. also jumped sharply , up 40 cts a barrel or 2.2 pct to 18.82 dlrs on higher gasoline prices . Reuter 
<TEST	16006	money-fx>
the floating exchange rate system has not been as effective as had been hoped in promoting stability and preventing imbalances from emerging in the global economy . In remarks before the afternoon session of the International Monetary Fund 's Interim Committee , Baker said he was not suggesting that the system should be abandoned . " But I do suggest , " he said , "that we need something to give it more stability and to keep it headed in the right direction when the wind shifts . " He said that indicators can serve " as a kind of compass " but added that structural indicators can help focus attention on some policies . Baker , however , said the IMF " needs to move beyond macroeconomic indicators and find structural indicators that can help focus attention on some of the policies of specific relevance to the imbalances we face toda y . " The Treasury Secretary said that indicators should be given a more prominent role in the annual economic reviews Article IV consultations that the Fund performs . Baker also told the policy making group that it was time for the IMF to adopt earlier recommendations making IMF surveillance more relevant to national policymakers and the public . " In particular , we urge increased publicity for IMF appraisals developed in Article IV consultations , the use of follow-up reports on country actions to implement IMF recommendations , and greater use of special consultation procedures , " he said . Baker emphasized that indicators were a device " for moving beyond rhetoric to action . " He said they provide " more structure to the system , and induce more discipline and peer pressure into the process of policy coordination . " He said the Fund 's procedures for surveillance need to be reviewed and updated to reflect the use of indicators . " This should be matter of priority for the executive board , " he said . Baker also urged the Fund to develop alternative medium-term economic scenarios for countries that " can help us focus even more clearly on the most important imbalances , by identifying options for addressing them and analyzing the implications of these options . " He said also that further work should be done on finding paths that lead toward possible medium-term objectives . " If we are to take effective remedial action when there are significant deviations from an intended course , then we must have more definitive ways of indentifying the right course for key variables , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	16007	acq	crude>
unit closed the acquisition of a 47 pct working interest in the Broussard oil and gas field from <Davis Oil Co> for about 22.5 mln dlrs in cash . Nerco said it estimates the field 's total proved developed and undeveloped reserves at 24 billion cubic feet , or equivalent , of natural gas , which more than doubles the company 's previous reserves . The field is located in southern Louisiana . Reuter 
<TEST	16009	money-fx	grain>
cotton posted solid gains in a flurry of buying today as losses in the U.S. dollar and rising interest rates kindled fears of inflation and economic instability . Gains were most pronounced on the Commodity Exchange in New York , where gold jumped 12.40 dlrs and closed at 436.50 dlrs a troy ounce , and silver 22.5 cents to 6.86 dlrs a troy ounce . A key factor behind the advance was anticipation that inflation will be the only way for the major industrial nations to halt the slide in the value of the U.S. dollar , said Steve Chronowitz , director of commodity research with Smith Barney , Harris Upham and Co. , in New York . The dollar tumbled one day after top finance officials from the seven largest industrial nations reaffirmed their commitment to support its value , and despite reports of intervention by the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank , traders said . Traders said it appears that the industrial nations , known as the Group of Seven , lack the ability to change the long-term direction of the currency markets . "Maybe they have some ideas or plans , " said Chronowitz . " If they do , it 's not evident . " " It looks like there 's no cure but to let the free market take values to where they should be . "One way or another , we will force our major trading partners to stimulate their economie s , " as a measure to correct the mounting U.S. trade deficit , Chronowitz said . " I think the markets believe , and have believed for a long time , that the only recourse is to reflate at some point . It 's going to be a long and tedious process , but that 's what 's happening , " he said . The falling value of the dollar makes U.S. commodities cheaper for foreign buyers , stimulating demand . At the same time , traders who are holding stocks and bonds saw the value of their investments falling and many are turning to commodities such as precious metals as a hedge , said Marty McNeill , a metals analyst in New York with the trading house of Dominick and Dominick . The reaction in the metal markets reverberated throughout the commodities markets , as grains , livestock , and cotton posted broad gains . Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade said attention in the grain markets has shifted from concern about burdensome supplies to the outlook that a lower dollar will stimulate export demand . After the close of trading , the Agriculture Department raised its estimate for grain imports by the Soviet Union by two mln tonnes from the month-earlier report . Live hogs and frozen pork bellies posted sharp gains on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange , while live cattle were moderately higher . Analysts said several factors boosted hog prices . They said hogs have n't been making the weight gains that are normal at this time of year , and farmers have been too busy with field work to market animals . Reuter 
<TEST	16052	trade>
mln dlrs in feb ruary , from 105.4 mln dlrs in the same month last year , but it was above the 18.2-mln-dlr surplus recorded in january 1987 , the central bank said . Exports in february totalled 379.4 mln dlrs , 17.2 pct above the january figure . Imports fell 9.2 pct from the previous month to 277.2 mln dlrs . The figures for the same month last year were 314 mln and 208.6 mln dlrs , respectively . The accumulated trade surplus over the first two months of 1987 stands at 120.4 mln dlrs against 132.8 mln dlrs the previous year . Reuter 
<TEST	16053	interest	money-fx>
Federal Reserve is firming policy to aid the dollar , despite higher discount window borrowings in the latest two-week statement period and very heavy borrowings Wednesday . Data out today show net borrowings from the Fed averaged 393 mln dlrs in the two weeks to Wednesday , up from 265 mln dlrs in the prior statement period . Wednesday borrowings were 1.4 billion dlrs as Federal funds averaged a high 6.45 pct . "One could make a case that the Fed is firming , but it probably is n't , " said William Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds . Sullivan said some may assume the Fed has firmed policy modestly to support the dollar because net borrowings in the two-wee ks to Wednesday were nearly 400 mln dlrs after averaging around 250 mln dlrs over the previous two months . However , the Dean Witter economist noted that the latest two-week period included a quarter end when seasonal demand often pushes up borrrowings . " Some might argue that the Fed was firming policy , but it looks like it tried to play catchup with reserve provisions late in the statement period and did n't quite make it , " said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . A Fed spokesman told a press press conference today that the Fed had no large net one-day miss of two billion dlrs or more in its reserve projections in the week ended Wednesday . Still , McCarthy said it may have had a cumulative miss in its estimates over the week that caused it to add fewer reserves earlier in the week than were actually needed . The Fed took no market reserve management action last Thursday and Friday , the first two days of the week . It added temporary reserves indirectly on Monday via two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements and then supplied reserves directly via System repurchases on Tuesday and Wednesday . Based on Fed data out today , economists calculated that the two-day System repurchase agreements the Fed arrranged on Tuesday totaled around 5.9 billion dlrs . They put Wednesday 's overnight System repos at approximately 3.4 billion dlrs . " It is quite clear that the Fed is not firming policy at this time ," said Larry Leuzzi of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc. Citing the view shared by the other two economists , Leuzzi said the Fed cannot really afford to seriously lift interest rates to help the dollar because that would harm already weak economies in the United States and abroad and add to the financial stress of developing countries and their lenders . "Those who believe the Fed tightened policy in the latest statement period have to explain why it acted before the dollar tumbled , " said McCarthy of Merrill Lynch . He said the dollar staged a precipitous drop as a new statement period began today on disappointment yesterday 's Washington meetings of international monetary officials failed to produce anything that would offer substantive dollar aid . In fact , currency dealers said there was nothing in Wednesday 's G-7 communique to alter the prevailing view that the yen needs to rise further to redress the huge trade imbalance between the United States and Japan . The economists generally agreed that the Fed is aiming for steady policy now that should correspond to a weekly average Fed funds rate between six and 6-1/8 pct . This is about where the rate has been since early November . " I 'm not so sure that the Fed is engineering a tighter policy to help the dollar , as some suspect , " said Sullivan of Dean Witter . If it is , however , he said that Fed probably has just nudged up its funds rate goal to around 6.25 to 6.35 pct from six to 6.10 pct previously . Reuter 
<TEST	16068	money-fx>
of 143.75 yen despite aggressive Bank of Japan intervention , dealers said . The previous record low was 144.70 yen set on March 30 . The opening compares with 143.90/144.00 yen at the close in New York . The central bank bought dollars through Tokyo brokers just before and after the market opening , the dealers said . The intervention took place when the dollar fell to 143.20 yen , one dealer said . The dollar opened at 1.8155/60 marks against 1.8187/97 in New York . The dollar fell as low as 142.90 yen despite central bank intervention at 143.00 yen , dealers said . Selling pressure was strong from securities houses and institutional investors in hectic and nervous trading on underlying bearish sentiment for the dollar , they said . Most dealers were surpised by the dollar 's sharp fall against the yen in New York , although many had expected such a drop to happen eventually . Institutional investors are expected to sell the dollar aggressively if it rises to around 143.50 yen , dealers said . The U.S. Currency steadied well above 143.00 yen after Bank of Japan intervention and scattered short-covering , they said . The dollar opened at 1.5120/30 Swiss francs against 1.5085/00 at the New York close . Sterling started at 1.6190/00 dlrs against 1.6195/05 . REUTER 
<TEST	16069	money-fx>
early Tokyo trading despite aggressive Bank of Japan intervention , dealers said . After opening at a Tokyo low of 143.75 yen , the dollar fell as low as 142.90 yen on heavy selling led by securities firms and institutional investors , they said . REUTER 
<TEST	16071	grain	wheat	corn>
quiet in the week to Wednesday , with prices rising slightly on increased interest in wheat , millet and birdseed . Wheat for domestic consumption rose six Australs per tonne to 118 . For export it rose eight to 108 per tonne from Bahia Blanca , increased 0.50 to 104 at Necochea and was unchanged at Rosario at 108.30 . Maize increased one to 90 per tonne at Buenos Aires , was unchanged at 82 in Bahia Blanca , increased 0.50 to 85 at Necochea and fell one to 88 at Parana River ports . Sorghum from Bahia Blanca increased 0.50 Australs to 76.50 per tonne and dropped one to 75 at Ros ario . It was quoted at 75 at Villa Constitucion , San Nicolas and Puerto Alvear . Oats were unchanged at 168 per tonne at Buenos Aires . Millet from Buenos Aires and Rosario rose five per tonne to 140 and birdseed rose 15 to 205 at Buenos Aires . REUTER 
<TEST	16072	money-fx	interest>
markets , with bond and stock prices tumbling in the dollar 's wake , is evidence of a major shift in investor psychology that is likely to spell more turbulence ahead , economists said . For two years , the markets had hailed the dollar 's decline as the cure-all for the U.S. Trade deficit . Interest rates fell sharply and Wall Street became a one-way street , up . But that confidence is now cracking as the financial markets suddenly believe Fed chairman Paul Vol cker 's often-repeated warnings about the risks of a dollar collapse . " Vol cker 's been saying for a long time that a dollar freefall would be extremely dangerous now he 's got it , " said David Jones , economist at Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc. The dollar fell below 144 yen today for the first time in 40 years as the Group of Seven finance ministers in Washington failed to convince the foreign exchange market that they have a credible strategy for redressing global trade imbalances , short of further depreciation of the dollar . Bonds suffered their biggest one-day drop in months amid worries that the dollar 's slide will rekindle inflation , scare away foreign investors and force the Fed to tighten credit . The inflationary fears boosted gold bullion by more than 12 dlrs to a 1987 high of 432.20/70 dlrs an ounce , while the spike in interest rates pulled the Dow Jones Industrial Average down by 33 points to 2339 . Norman Robertson , Mellon Bank chief economist , called the markets ' instability frightening . He believes economic fundamentals do not justify the bearishness but said that " once you start the ball rolling it 's difficult to stop . " " There 's a stark possibility that you could get a destabilizing drop in the dollar that forces up interest rates and drives us into recession . The markets are in a panic . " Stephen Marris of the Institute for International Economics in Washington , has been warning for a long time that the controlled decline of the dollar since peaks of 3.47 marks and 264 yen in February 1985 could turn into a nightmare . " We 're still more or less on track for a hard landing But the agony may be fairly drawn out , " Marris told Reuters . Marris does not expect the crisis to peak until later this year , but he warned that the situation is so fragile that it would take very little to touch off what he calls the second phase of the hard landing , whereby a loss of confidence in the dollar pushes up interest rates and leads to a recession . The stock market 's reaction today and its sharp drop on March 30 shows how the loss of confidence could come about . The fact that it has not happened yet is consistent with historical experience , which teaches that domestic markets are not affected until a currency is in the final stages of its decline , Marris said . He has forecast a drop to about 125 yen . Marris felt that a major impetus for the dollar 's latest weakness was the loss of credibility that central banks suffered when they failed to prevent the dollar from falling below 150 yen , the floor that the market believes was set as part of the G-7 Paris agreement in February . Robertson at Mellon , by contrast , said the loss of confidence was triggered last week when Washington announced plans to slap 300 mln dlrs of tariffs on Japanese electronic imports , raising the specter of a debilitating trade war . Many economists believe that long-run stability will not return to the markets until the root cause of the trade gap is addressed excessive consumption in the U.S. , Reflected in the massive budget deficit . But in the short term , given the failure of the G-7 and of central bank intervention , some feel that the Fed will have no choice but to tighten credit to restore faith in the dollar . " The only thing that will stop the dollar falling is a substantial increase in the discount rate and a corresponding cut abroad , at least by Japan ," said Lanston 's Jones . Marris expects the Fed to act quickly to raise interest rates , even at the risk of increasing the debt burden for American farmers , Latin American governments and others . But Robert Giordano , chief economist at Goldman Sachs and Co , scoffed at the notion . " It 's ridiculous to think the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates when the dollar is weak against just one currency . This is yen strength , not dollar weakness , " he said . Giordano said the market was ignoring the progress being made toward reducing the U.S. Budget deficit . " We 're going to have one of the biggest reductions in the budget deficit relative to GNP in history this year , and nobody cares , " he said , noting that only the deficit cut in 1968-69 will have been greater . He said he does not expect the dollar to collapse and thinks interest rates are likely to fall back later this year . But for now , market psychology has changed so abruptly that a further drop in the bond market cannot be ruled out . " Put on your helmets , " Giordano said . REUTER 
<TEST	16074	interest>
certificates of deposit ( CD ) fell to 4.13 pct in the week ended April 8 from 4.33 pct the previous week , the Bank of Japan said . New rates ( previous in brackets ) Average CD rates all banks 4.13 pct ( 4.33 ) Money Market Certificate ( MM C ) ceiling rates for week starting from April 13 3.38 pct ( 3.58 ) Average CD rates of city , trust and long-term banks Less than 60 days 4.15 pct ( 4.41 ) 60-90 days 4.14 pct ( 4.29 ) Average CD rates of city , trust and long-term banks 90-120 days 4.12 pct ( 4.25 ) 120-150 days 4.12 pct ( 4.23 ) 150-180 days unquoted ( 4.03 ) 180-270 days 4.05 pct ( 4.05 ) Over 270 days 4.05 pct ( unq td ) Average yen bankers acceptance rates of city , trust and long-term banks 30 to less than 60 days 3.98 pct ( 4.20 ) 60-90 days 4.03 pct ( 3.97 ) 90-120 days unquoted ( unq td ) REUTER 
<TEST	16075	interest>
has no plans to cut its discount rate . They told reporters that there was no pressure on Japan during the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) meeting here yesterday to lower its discount rate . They added that they themselves do not feel any need for a cut at all . Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson told reporters earlier today that some countries those with strong currencies might have to cut interest rates . The Bank of Japan sources also said that it was too soon to call the G-7 pact a failure . The central bank sources were commenting on the dollar 's renewed tumble in New York and Tokyo , which was sparked by remarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that the dollar 's fall had been orderly . They said the market must have misinterpreted Baker 's comments because he was referring to the dollar 's fall since the Plaza agreement in September 1985 , over a long-time span , not the currency 's recent movements . They added that the foreign exchange markest seem to seize on anything to use as an excuse to drive the dollar one way or the other . The Bank of Japan sources said the U.S. Is putting more weight on the dollar/yen rate in terms of judging market stability than on other currencies . Throughout the G-7 meeting , Japan pointed to the dangers that would arise from a further dollar fall because it would reduce the flow of Japanese capital to the U.S. , Hurting the U.S. And world economies , they said . In February and in March of this year , Japanese investors reduced their purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds , the sources said . Each country in the G-7 Britain , Canada , France , Italy , Japan , the U.S. And West Germany has a different view about currency stability , the Bank of Japan sources said . This is because the overall foreign exchange market is a triangle of dollar/yen , European currencie s/yen and dollar/European currencies . At the time of the Louvre agreement , European countries did not want the yen to weaken against their currencies so they did not object to the yen strengthening , they said . REUTER 
<TEST	16076	ship>
officials have reached a compromise in a dispute over workers compensation , averting increased industrial action in the state , union sources said . But some unions , including those of building and mining workers , said they were dissatisfied with the deal and would continue their strikes for a few more days . State officials said the government had agreed to revise its proposals to cut compensation and would allow slightly higher cash benefits for injured workers . Under the original proposal , which sparked strikes and other industrial action in the state on April 7 , workers ' compensation would have been cut by one third . Full details of the compromise package are not yet known . The Labour Council , affiliated to the Australian Council of Trade Unions ( ACTU ) , had threatened to paralyse New South Wales unless the government modified its pending legislation on the issue . State officials said the only sectors affected in the past three days were some government building projects , railway freight movement and cargo handling in Sydney 's ports . REUTER 
<TEST	16077	crude>
output on May 8 when a new 43 km pipeline to neighbouring Colombia should be finished , an energy ministry spokesman said . Oil output was halted on March 5 by an earthquake which damaged 50 km of the main pipeline linking jungle oilfields at Lago Agrio to the Ecuadorean port of Balao on the Pacific . About 13 km of the new link , capable of carrying some 50,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) , has been built , he said . Ecuador pumped 245,000 to 250,000 bpd before the earthquake . The new link will connect Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon in Colombia , the starting point of Columbia 's pipeline to the Pacific ocean port of Temuco . The government estimates it will take about four more months to repair the Lago Agrio to Balao pipeline and return output to normal levels , the spokesman said . REUTER 
<TEST	16079	grain>
in the week ended April 7 , down from 75,160 tonnes the previous week , the Commerce Ministry said . It said the government and private exporters shipped 41,607 and 15,0 45 tonnes respectively . Private exporters concluded advance weekly sales for 48,062 tonnes against 22,086 tonnes the previous week . Thailand exported 1.29 mln tonnes of rice so far in 1987 , down from 1.39 mln tonnes a year ago . It has commitments to export a further 353,045 tonnes this year . REUTER 
<TEST	16083	interest>
Languetin said a wider interest rate differential between the dollar and stronger currencies was needed to brake the dollar 's fall . At a news conference , he said Japan and West Germany could try to stimulate their economies further by expanding money supply , but he added " I 'm not so sure it would be desirable if monetary policy became more expansive . " But what would be useful is a greater differential in interest rates , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	16088	trade>
take retaliatory measures if the United States imposes its planned trade sanctions on April 17 , a senior government official said . Shinji Fukukawa , Vice Minister of the International Trade and Industry Ministry , said in a statement Japan would consider measures under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and other actions if the United States imposes 100 pct tariffs on some Japanese exports as planned next week . However , Fukukawa said Japan was ready to continue trade talks with the United States despite its failure to convince America to call off the threatened tariffs during two days of emergency talks which ended in Washington yesterday . Last month President Reagan announced the sanctions in retaliation for what he called Japan 's failure to honour a July 1986 agreement to stop dumping computer microchips in markets outside the United States and to open its home market to American goods . Fukukawa said the United States had regrettably not listened to Japan 's explanation of its efforts to live up the pact and said Washington had not given any detailed explanation of why it planned to impose the tariffs . REUTER 
<TEST	16094	trade>
of import tariff cuts on 862 foreign goods shortly before trade talks with Washington which officials described as a move to help balance trade with the United States . Wang Der-Hwa , Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry 's Customs Administration Department , told reporters the list of products included 60 items asked by Washington . " The move is part of our government efforts to encourage imports from our trading partners , particularly from the United States , " he said . He said the ministry sent a proposal today to the cabinet that the tariffs on such products as cosmetics , bicycles , apples , radios , garments , soybeans and television sets be cut by between five and 50 pct . The cabinet was expected to give its approval next Thursday and the new tariff cuts would be implemented possibly starting on April 20 , he added . Taiwan introduced a sweeping tariff cut on some 1,700 foreign products last January aimed at helping reduce its growing trade surplus with the United States , the island 's largest trading partner . Washington however was not satisfied with the cuts and pressed for more reductions as a way of cutting its huge trade deficit with Taipei . Washington 's deficit with Taipei rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985 . It widened to 3.61 billion in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78 billion a year earlier , Taiwan 's official figures show . Today 's announcement came before a departure later today of a 15-member Taiwan delegation for Washington for a series of trade talks with U.S. O fficials . The delegation 's leader , Vincent Siew , told reporters last night he was leaving with " a heavy heart , " meaning that he would face tough talks in Washington because of rising protectionist sentiments in the U.S. Congress . Taiwan 's 1986 trade surplus with Washington was the third largest , after Japan and Canada . Siew said the talks , starting on April 14 , would cover U.S. Calls for Taiwan to open its market to American products , purchases of major U.S. Machinery and power plant equipment , import tariff cuts and protection of intellectual property . " I am afraid this time we have to give more than take from our talks with the U.S. , " he said without elaborating . REUTER 
<TEST	16095	trade>
Japanese government a clear warning of sanctions against Japanese companies if Tokyo did not allow more access to its internal markets " and it was clearly understood . " Corporate Affairs Minister Michael Howard said on his return from a visit to Japan he thought the Japanese were beginning to appreciate the need to be " fair and open " about access to their own markets . At an airport news conference Howard denied opposition charges that his trip had been a failure because he had returned empty-handed . " I did what I set out to do . I was sent to deliver a clear message to the Japanese government , and I delivered it very clearly , and it has been clearly understood . " Howard said that under the Financial Services Act the govenment had considerable flexibility in taking sanctions against Japanese companies and finance houses operating in Britain . " It is not simply a question of withdrawing or refusing operating licences . We can ban firms from certain countries from carrying out certain kinds of business , while allowing them to carry out other kinds . " " I hope we do n't have to use these powers , but I made it clear in Japan that if our timetable is n't met , we shall use them . " He said it would be unfortunate if Britain and Japan became involved in a tit-for-tat exchange , adding that Japan gained more than anyone else from an open trading relationship . " I think they are beginning to appreciate that if this relationship is to continue , it is very important for them to be fair and open about access to their own markets . " On the question of the British firm Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L> , which is trying to win a significant share of telecommunications contracts in Japan , Howard said he had told the Japanese this was being widely regarded as a test case . He said there were signs of movement on the case . Cable and Wireless was due to take part in talks in Japan next Tuesday , he said . Earlier this week British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said Britain could not go it alone on sanctions against Japan , but would have to coordinate action with its European Community partners . Community sources said after a meeting of trade officials yesterday that the group might impose steep new tariffs on a range of Japanese goods to prevent diversion from United States markets if Washington imposes trade sanctions against Tokyo as it has threatened . REUTER 
<TEST	16096	interest>
Deposit Accounts issued this week by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency ( SAMA ) rose by more than 1/8 point to 5.95913 pct from 5.79348 a week ago , bankers said . SAMA decreased the offer price on the 900 mln riyal issue to 99.50586 from 99.51953 last Saturday . Like-dated interbank deposits were quoted today at 6-3/8 , 1/8 pct 1/8 point higher than last Saturday . SAMA offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals in 30 , 91 and 180-day paper to banks in the kingdom each week . REUTER 
<TEST	16099	grain	corn>
111,350 hectares of rice and corn plantations in 10 provinces in the central and southern Philippines , agriculture officials said . They said some 71,070 tonnes of agricultural produce estimated at about 250 mln pesos was lost to the lack of rainfall . They warned of a severe drought if the prevailing conditions continued until next month . Agriculture Secretary Carlos Dominguez said he hoped the losses would be offset by the expected increase in output in other , normally more productive areas not affected by the dry spell . Affected were 14,030 hectares of palay ( unmilled rice ) , representing a production loss of 22,250 tonnes valued at 77.8 mln pesos , Department of Agriculture reports said . About 48,820 tonnes of corn from 97,320 hectares valued at 170.8 mln pesos have also been lost , they said . Officials said the hectarage planted to palay that has been hit by the drought accounted for only one pct of national total thus the damage is considered negligible . In the case of corn , they said the loss can be filled by production from non-traditional corn farms which diversified into the cash crop from sugar two years ago . The Philippine Coconut Authority said coconut production in the major producing region of Bicol might drop by 25 pct to 320,000 tonnes if the dry spell continued . There were no reports of actual damage . REUTER 
<TEST	16111	money-fx>
here in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen , dealers said . The central bank had placed buy orders at that level and prevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavy selling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses , they said . However , the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currency significantly from the 142.20 yen level , they added . The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30 yen . It had opened here at 141.85 yen . REUTER 
<TEST	16118	trade>
shows that Yugoslavia 's trade deficit grew , the inflation rate rose , wages were sharply higher , the money supply expanded and the value of the dinar fell . The trade deficit for 1986 was 2.012 billion dlrs , 25.7 pct higher than in 1985 . The trend continued in the first three months of this year as exports dropped by 17.8 pct , in hard currency terms , to 2.124 billion dlrs . Yugoslavia this year started quoting trade figures in dinars based on current exchange rates , instead of dollars based on a fixed exchange rate of 264.53 dinars per dollar . Yugoslavia 's balance of payments surplus with the convertible currency area fell to 245 mln dlrs in 1986 from 344 mln in 1985 . The National Bank said the drop was due to a deterioration in trade . Exports to the convertible currency area rose 11.6 pct from 1985 , while imports rose 17.8 pct . Retail prices rose an average of 88.1 pct in 1986 while industrial producer prices rose by 70.6 pct , the bank 's data showed . The cost of living rose by 89.1 pct . Personal incomes rose by 109 pct in 1986 . Prime Minister Branko Mikulic warned in February that wages were too high given the level of productivity . Mikulic introduced a law cutting wages to the level of the last quarter of 1986 and tying future rises to productivity . Bank statistics show the overall 1986 rise in M-1 money supply was 109.1 pct with a year-end position of 3,895.9 billion dinars . Yugoslavs have 9.8 billion dlrs worth of foreign currency savings in the country and 20 billion dlrs abroad , mostly owned by workers employed in western Europe . The dinar fell by 73.1 pct against a basket of hard currencies in 1986 . The highest depreciation was against the Swiss franc , 85.3 pct , and the lowest against the U.S. Dollar , 46.2 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	16120	interest>
( CD ) offered by the United Arab Emirates Central Bank were higher than last Monday 's offering , the bank said . The one-month CD rose 1/4 point to 6-3/8 pct , while the two , three and six-month maturities rose 5/1 6 point each to 6-7/16 , 6-1/2 and 6-5/8 pct respectively . REUTER 
<TEST	16125	trade>
pct in first quarter 1987 , against a 12.4 pct decline in the same period last year and two pct growth in the previous quarter , the Trade Development Board said . It said exports over the period rose by 8.7 pct to 12.38 billion dlrs and imports by 8.9 pct to 14.64 billion for a trade deficit of 2.26 billion , against a 2.06 billion deficit in the same 1986 period and 1.78 billion deficit previously . The growth was attributed to the strength of non-oil trade , especially computers and computer parts , electronic components and garments , it said . REUTER 
<TEST	16126	trade>
rose by 24.5 pct to 15.1 billion ringgit in 1986 , chairman of the Export Promotion Council Ahmad Sarji Abdul Hamind said . The improved export performance was led by electrical and electronic products , textiles , footwear , clothing , processed food , timber , chemical and rubber products , he told a news conference . However , total gross exports for the year declined by 5.6 pct to 35.9 billion ringgit from 38 billion in 1985 due to a fall in major commodity exports and weak prices , he said . REUTER 
<TEST	16133	money-fx>
shortage of around 400 mln stg in the money market today . Among the main factors affecting liquidity , bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 1.085 billion stg . Partly offsetting these outflows , a fall in note circulation will add some 340 mln stg , exchequer transactions around 300 mln and bankers ' balances above target about 50 mln . REUTER 
<TEST	16139	trade>
Community are starting to run out of patience with Japan which they believe has repeatedly promised major initiatives to open its market to imports , but as often made only minor moves . Diplomatic sources here said several recent actions by EC countries bear witness to a new disillusionment with the willingness , or at least the ability , of the Japanese government to reduce its massive trade surplus with the EC . However , they said an all-out trade war may be far off , as EC states know they would suffer almost as much as Japan . Senior EC diplomats gave a generally favourable reaction to an EC executive commission proposal under which the EC could raise tariffs on a range of Japanese products if the U.S. Carries out a threat to make a similar move on April 17 . The EC tariffs , which would involve renouncing obligations entered into with the world trade body GATT , would be designed to stop a diversion of exports to the EC market from that of the U.S. The diplomats were meeting as Tokyo announced that the EC 's trade deficit with Japan reached a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March , up from 1.94 billion in February . In 1986 , Japanese exports to the EC totalled 30.67 billion dlrs , up 4.5 pct from 1985 , while EC exports to Japan fell one pct to 12.43 billion dlrs . In Paris , trade minister Michel Noir said France has decided to give Japan a taste of its own medicine . Burgeoning imports of microwave ovens and of frozen Coquilles St Jacques will be restricted by a strict application of French quality standards something EC states say often happens to their own exports entering Japan . Britain has threatened to withdraw the licences of Japanese banks and insurance companies to operate in the City of London , because the British Cable and Wireless company lost out in competition for a Japanese telecommucations contract . However , British officials in London have said that the government may have gone too far in implying that it would take immediate drastic action unless the contract was reopened . By contrast , West Germany , with the EC 's most successful economy , has never threatened Tokyo with sanctions , preferring to rely on firm diplomacy and encouragement of its own industries to surmount obstacles to export to Japan . The EC Commission itself has switched its tactics in recent years , substituting general calls for action by Japan to open its market with specific demands for moves in key areas . At present , it is , for instance , pressuring Japan to end allegedly discriminatory taxation of imported wines and spirits , to ensure EC companies have a chance to win contracts for the building of a new international airport , and to simplify certification and safety checks on imported cars . EC officials say these tactics yield some benefits , but often the Japanese announce modifications of their non-tariff barriers which open the door to imports by only a token amount . They stress , however , that any action must be taken by the EC as a whole to stop beggar-my-neighbour action . One of the problems Britain could face if it were to withdraw licences for Japanese banks would be that the bankers would be welcomed with open arms in Frankfurt or Amsterdam , they point out . REUTER 
<TEST	16143	money-fx>
against the special drawing right ( SDR ) in response to the decline of the dollar last last week , bankers said . The Central Bank of Kenya set the shilling at 20.7449 to the SDR compared with the 20.6226 rate in force since the last devaluation on March 31 . The Kenyan shilling has lost 5.6 pct of its value against the SDR this year in a series of devaluations designed to keep the value of the dollar above 16 shillings . REUTER 
<TEST	16144	grain	wheat>
markets through lack of availability if plantings for the coming 1987/88 season are significantly reduced , Australian Wheat Board ( AWB ) chairman Clinton Condon said . " If predictions of a 30 pct decrease in plantings prove true , Australia may not be able to supply wheat to some of its valuable markets , " he said in a statement . Condon did not say who had made the predictions , but an AWB spokesman said there was a general industry feeling that farmers , hard hit by low prices and rising costs , could cut back plantings sharply . Wheat sowing normally begins in May . However , Condon said he did not believe plantings would be cut by as much as 30 pct although he realised many farmers were facing enormous financial pressures . He said the AWB expects the area sown to be about 10.7 mln hectares , down from 11.3 mln in 1986/87 when the crop was about 16 mln tonnes . Final crop estimates for 1986/87 and planting intentions for 1987/88 are not yet available . If the AWB is unable , because of a short-term cut in plantings , to meet the needs of the markets it has developed with much time and effort , it may have great difficulty selling wheat to those markets in the future , Condon said . " Markets which rely on a steady supply of Australian wheat understand a decrease in production due to drought but they will have difficulty understanding a deliberate decision to decrease production , " Condon said . " If Australia wants wheat to continue as a major export income earner , governments and government authorities will need to closely examine ways of contributing to the continuing viability of the wheat industry , " he added . Australia 's leading wheat markets include China , Egypt , Iran , Iraq , the Soviet Union and Japan . REUTER 
<TEST	16147	grain	corn>
prices of corn , rice , cottonseed and shelled peanuts from April 1 to encourage farmers to grow them , the official China Commercial Daily said . The paper said the price paid for corn from 14 northern provinces , cities and regions has increased by one yuan per 50 kg . A foreign agricultural expert said the rise will take the price to 17 fen per jin ( 0.5 k g ) from 16 fen . The paper said the price for long-grained rice from 10 southern provinces and cities was raised by 1.5 yuan per 50 kg . The paper said the price for round-grained rice from 11 provinces , regions and cities in central , east and northwest China has been increased by 1.75 yuan per 50 kg . It gave no more price details . It said local authorities must inform farmers of the price increases before farmers begin planting , to encourage production of grains and oilseeds . Chinese officials have said farmers are unwilling to grow grain because they can earn more from other crops . REUTER 
<TEST	16150	interest>
it will lower its prime lending rate to 17.5 pct from 18.25 , effective April 15 . The bank 's new rate will be the lowest of Australia 's current prime rates . They now range from 17.75 pct to 18.5 after a recent series of reductions since late March following an easier trend in short term money market rates . Two of the three other major trading banks now have prime rates of 18 pct and one of 18.25 . The Commonwealth 's move reverses an increase from 17.5 pct in early February . REUTER 
<TEST	16161	interest	money-fx>
surged across the board as banks tried to build long positions in anticipation of a further rise in U.S. Interest rates , dealers said . They said traders expected riyal deposits to follow the recent strong rise in eurodollar rates sparked by fears of a tighter U.S. Monetary policy to halt the dollar 's slide . " There was a wave of panic buying early in the morning as people tried to cover gaps and build long riyal positions , " said one dealer . As a result , riyal deposits were strongly bid and traders scrambled for any available offers . One-way trade focused mainly on the fixed periods but short dates also rose , dealers said . Spot-next and one-week deposits climbed to 6-5/8 , 1/8 pct from 6-3/8 , six on Sunday . One-month deposits rose to 6-1/2 , 3/8 pct from 6-1/4 , six and three-month deposits climbed to 6-3/4 , 5/8 pct from 6-9/16 , 7/1 6. Six-month deposits also firmed to 7-1/8 , seven pct from 7-1/16 , 6-7/8 on Sunday . The spot riyal was steady at 3.7500/03 to the dollar after quotes of 3.7498/7503 yesterday . REUTER 
<TEST	16177	money-fx>
yen in deficit financing bills today through 51-day repurchase agreements maturing June 3 to help absorb a projected money market surplus , money traders said . The operation will raise the outstanding supply of the bills to a record 4,800 billion yen . The yield on the bills for sale to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.8999 pct compared with the two-month commercial bill discount rate today of 3.8750 pct and the two-month certificate of deposit rate of 4.13/00 pct . The traders estimated the surplus today at about 1,800 billion yen . They said it is mainly due to 1,300 billion yen of government tax allocations to local governments and public entities and to excessive banking system cash holdings due to continuous large central bank dollar purchases . REUTER 
<TEST	16180	money-fx	interest>
deposit accounts issued this week by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency ( SAMA ) rose to 6.43896 pct from 6.21563 a week ago , bankers said . SAMA lowered the offer price on the 500 mln riyal issue to 98.39844 from 98.45313 last Monday . Like-dated interbank deposits were quoted today at 6-3/4 , 5/8 pct . SAMA offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals in 30 , 91 and 180-day accounts to banks in the Kingdom each week . REUTER 
<TEST	16188	money-fx>
the money market with 75 mln stg help in the morning session . This compares with the Bank 's estimate that the system would face a shortage of around 400 mln stg today . The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising two mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct , 15 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and 58 mln stg in band three at 9-11/16 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	16189	money-fx>
here in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen , dealers said . The central bank had placed buy orders at that level and prevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavy selling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses , they said . However , the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currency significantly from the 142.20 yen level , they added . The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30 yen . It had opened here at 141.85 yen . REUTER 
<TEST	16190	money-fx	trade>
challenging the entrenched view of policy makers of the Group of Seven industrialised nations that relative currency rates are the key to smoothing world trade problems . Senior Japanese , U.S. And European officials in Tokyo say they are at a loss to fully explain the data , for if currencies are the key they ask , why then are are U.S. Exports to Japan shrinking ? What if manipulating currencies and driving the dollar down made world trade problems worse rather than solving them , fulfilling Federal Reserve chairman Paul Vol cker 's forecast of world trade recession ? U.S.-Japan trade has declined even after a 40 pct dollar fall against the yen since the September 1985 Group of Five pact in New York . The lower dollar ought to have made U.S. Exports 40 pct more competitive in Japan . The officials , most of them economists , can offer no objective reason why they are not . Worse , how are European Community sales to Japan rising rapidly when the European Currency Unit has until now declined only 11 pct against the yen . ? Last week 's G-7 meeting in Washington has been widely interpreted as a sign from the policy makers that the dollar must go lower . So worst of all , what if Volcker is correct ? At a loss to give an objective explanation , officials can only offer explanations which tend to be highly subjective . " I do n't know and I do n't think anyone knows , " said Hugh Richardson , acting head of the EC delegation in Tokyo . " What I do know is that Community exporters are making a hell of an effort in this market . If you make an effort , there is money to be made in Japan ," he added . But U.S. Officials and businessmen are convinced low U.S. Exports to Japan are Japan 's fault . They cite restrictive trade practices , protected Japanese trade sectors , such as agriculture , and non-tariff barriers , such as unreasonable checking and customs procedures for car imports . Publicly , Japanese officials remain conciliatory in the face of what they see as U.S. Aggression . In private , they blame U.S. Industry for being uncompetitive . " We see it that way , but we do n't like to seem arrogant , " said a senior official , who declined to be named . " We like to refrain from accusing them of not making enough effort . " Industrialists such as Eishiro Saito , chairman of the Keidanren business group , and Sony Corp chairman Akio Morita repeatedly accuse foreign firms of not making enough effort to understand Japan 's markets , and some foreigners agree . " The real issue is the inability of major sectors of American and European industry to compete not only internationally but even in their home markets , " Peter Huggler , President of Interallianz Bank Zurich , told a recent conference in Switzerland . REUTER...^M 
<TEST	16213	money-fx>
foreign exchange auction to 18.75 kwacha to the dollar from last week 's 16.95 , the Bank of Zambia said . The rate was the lowest since the auctions resumed two weeks ago under a new two-tier exchange rate system worked out with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund . The Bank of Zambia said it received 370 bids , ranging from 13.00 to 20.75 kwacha , for the six mln dlrs on offer . One hundred and thirty-five bids were successful . A British High Commission spokesman said Britain would put eight mln stg into the auction at a rate of one mln a week as soon as Zambia reached a full agreement with the IMF. The money could be spent only on goods produced and supplied by British firms , excluding luxuries and defence equipment , the spokesman added . Reuter 
<TEST	16214	interest>
Lloyd Bentsen ( D-Tex . ) called on major industrial countries to make a pledge at the coming economic summit in Venice to cut interest rates . " I think at the summit meeting in Venice what we ought to be trying to do is to get the other major industrial nations that are involved to bring interest rates down , say , one pct , " Bentsen told NBC Television 's " Meet the Press . " Bentsen said coordinated rate cuts could take " billions off the debt service of the Latin countrie s " and help ease protectionist pressures in the industrial countries . Bentsen also South Korea and Taiwan should be pressured to revalue their currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar . " You take the Taiw a nese , with an enormous capital surplus , enormous trade surplus , and we 've had very little cooperation there , " he said . Departing Deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman told the same television network he agreed that the U.S. dollar had not fallen enough against the currencies of some countries . " I think that more does have to be done there in negotiations with the countries involved , the so-called NICs ( newly industrialized countries ) ," he said . Darman said such negotiations with newly industrialized countries were underway privately . Bentsen predicted Congress and the White House would agree on a fiscal 1988 budget that would raise between 18 and 22 billion dlrs in new revenues . The Texas senator said a series of excise taxes would be considered by Congress , including an extension of the telephone tax and new levies on liquor and cigarettes . Bentsen said he supported an oil import fee , but that it would not happen without President Reagan 's support . Darman called for a " top level negotiatio n " between the White House and Congress on a budget compromise that would include asset sales , some excise taxes , cuts in middle-class entitlement programs , " a reasonable , steady rate of growth in defense " and reform of the budget process . Reuter 
<TEST	16251	money-fx>
market with a further 68 mln stg assistance this afternoon , bringing its total assistance on the day to 143 mln stg . Shortly before , the Bank said it had revised its estimate of the shortage up to 450 mln stg from the earlier forecast of 400 mln . During the afternoon , the bank bought 22 mln stg of band two bank bills at 9-13/16 pct and two mln stg of local authority bills plus 44 mln stg of bank bills in band four at 9-11/16 pct . These rates were in all cases unchanged from previous intervention levels . REUTER 
<TEST	16256	trade>
Community are starting to run out of patience with Japan which they believe has repeatedly promised major initiatives to open its market to imports , but as often made only minor moves . Diplomatic sources here said several recent actions by EC countries bear witness to a new disillusionment with the willingness , or at least the ability , of the Japanese government to reduce its massive trade surplus with the EC . However , they said an all-out trade war may be far off , as EC states know they would suffer almost as much as Japan . Senior EC diplomats gave a generally favourable reaction to an EC executive commission proposal under which the EC could raise tariffs on a range of Japanese products if the U.S. Carries out a threat to make a similar move on April 17 . The EC tariffs , which would involve renouncing obligations entered into with the world trade body GATT , would be designed to stop a diversion of exports to the EC market from that of the U.S. The diplomats were meeting as Tokyo announced that the EC 's trade deficit with Japan reached a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March , up from 1.94 billion in February . Reuter 
<TEST	16257	trade>
effectively given Japan six weeks to take moves to open its market to imports before it decides on possible tough retaliatory trade measures , EC diplomats said . They said EC foreign ministers will meet on May 25 and 26 to review the state of trade relations between the two sides . The EC executive commission was asked by representatives of member states on Friday to propose a renunciation of some EC pledges to the world trade body , GATT , unless there are " adequate and early measures to open the Japanese market . " Such a renunciation would be the first step to imposing stiff increases in duties , or quantitative limits , on Japanese exports . The diplomats said it was unlikely that the issue would be discussed in detail at the next meeting of EC foreign ministers on April 27 and 28 in Luxembourg as time was needed to prepare proposals for possible retaliatory action . They said the commission has powers to take some limited action before getting ministerial approval to prevent Japanese exports of electrical , photographic and other goods being diverted to Europe following of possible U.S. Tariff moves . In May , the ministers are also likely to discuss how to prevent Japan from getting an extra trading advantage as a result of Spain and Portugal joining the bloc , which obliges them gradually to reduce tariffs on many industrial goods . Japan 's trade surplus with the Community has grown steadily , registering a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March . Reuter 
<TEST	16265	grain>
balance in port of grains , oilseeds and derivatives rose to 146,000 tonnes on April 11 from 111,000 a week earlier after arrivals of 404,000 tonnes and discharges of 369,000 tonnes last week . The balance comprised 21,000 tonnes of grains plus oilseeds and 125,000 tonnes of derivatives . This week 's estimated arrivals total 274,000 tonnes , of which 71,000 are grains/oilseeds and 203,000 derivatives . The figures cover around 95 pct of Rotterdam traffic in the products concerned . Reuter 
<TEST	16271	grain	wheat>
lowered its ASCS terminal prices for low protein hard red winter and hard red spring wheat at a number of locations , a senior USDA official said . USDA reduced the price of hard red winter wheat at Kansas City and Texas by six cents , at Minneapolis and Duluth by 32 cents and at St Louis by nine cents , Ralph Klopfenstein , deputy administrator of commodity operations at the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service , said . The department also lowered the terminal price of hard red spring wheat at Minneapolis and Duluth by 32 cents , he said . In addition , USDA cut the Pacific Northwest price of hard red spring wheat by 31 cents , USDA officials who asked not to be identified said . The officials said hard red spring wheat prices at Chicago , Denver and Toledo were adjusted by about the same amount as at Pacific Northwest , Duluth and Minneapolis . The price changes should lead to a pickup of PIK and roll activity , Klopfenstein said . The price change was decided upon last week and will be effective today , he said . Klopfenstein also said the department raised the premiums on high protein wheat to offset the drop in low protein wheat prices , meaning the net price on any wheat commanding a protein premium would remain unchanged . Reuter 
<TEST	16274	interest>
adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-140 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-179 days 141-160 days 6.13 pct 6.08 pct 180-200 days 161-182 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 201-274 days 183-200 days 6.17 pct 6.18 pct 275-290 days 201-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 291-360 days Reuter 
<TEST	16285	money-fx>
market late assistance of around 210 mln stg , bringing its total help on the day to some 353 mln stg . This compares with the Bank 's estimate of the liquidity shortage of around 450 mln stg , raised from its early forecast of 400 mln stg . REUTER 
<TEST	16304	interest>
its broker loan rate to 7-1/2 pct from 7-1/4 pct , effective immediately . U.S. Trust Co , the only other bank to publicize its broker rate , was already posting 7-1/2 pct . Reuter 
<TEST	16331	money-fx>
enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves directly by arranging three-day System repurchase agreements , economists said . They said the Fed may add the reserves indirectly instead via a large round , two billion dlrs or more , of customer repurchase agreements . Federal funds , which averaged a high 6.35 pct on Friday , opened at 6-7/16 pct and traded between there and 6-1/2 pct . Reuter 
<TEST	16357	trade>
of import tariff cuts on 862 foreign goods shortly before trade talks with Washington which officials described as a move to help balance trade with the United States . Wang Der-Hwa , Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry 's Customs Administration Department , told reporters the list of products included 60 items asked by Washington . " The move is part of our government efforts to encourage imports from our trading partners , particularly from the United States , " he said . He said the ministry sent a proposal today to the cabinet that the tariffs on such products as cosmetics , bicycles , apples , radios , garments , soybeans and television sets be cut by between five and 50 pct . The cabinet was expected to give its approval next Thursday and the new tariff cuts would be implemented possibly starting on April 20 , he added . Taiwan introduced a sweeping tariff cut on some 1,700 foreign products last January aimed at helping reduce its growing trade surplus with the United States , the island 's largest trading partner . Washington however was not satisfied with the cuts and pressed for more reductions as a way of cutting its huge trade deficit with Taipei . Washington 's deficit with Taipei rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985 . It widened to 3.61 billion in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78 billion a year earlier , Taiwan 's official figures show . Today 's announcement came before a departure later today of a 15-member Taiwan delegation for Washington for a series of trade talks with U.S. O fficials . The delegation 's leader , Vincent Siew , told reporters last night he was leaving with " a heavy heart , " meaning that he would face tough talks in Washington because of rising protectionist sentiments in the U.S. Congress . Taiwan 's 1986 trade surplus with Washington was the third largest , after Japan and Canada . Siew said the talks , starting on April 14 , would cover U.S. Calls for Taiwan to open its market to American products , purchases of major U.S. Machinery and power plant equipment , import tariff cuts and protection of intellectual property . " I am afraid this time we have to give more than take from our talks with the U.S. , " he said without elaborating . REUTER 
<TEST	16359	grain>
grain crop in Bulgaria and Romania appear less favorable than in 1986 , the U.S. Agriculture Department 's officer in Belgrade said in a field report . The report said the assessment was based on travel in the two countries from March 30 to April 4 . It said crop conditions were better than earlier expected following the extreme dry conditions last fall and the prolonged winter temperatures this spring . However , in general plant development was at least three weeks or more behind normal this spring , and conditions varied greatly by regions , the report said . Fields seeded during the optimum period last fall , and especially those receiving supplemental irrigation water ( about 65 pct of the fields observed ) , appeared to be in good condition , with little evidence of winterkill , while others varied considerably , the report said . Fields lacking adequate moisture last fall showed weak and uneven stands . Spotty germination and winterkill in those fields averaged 10 to 30 pct , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	16366	crude	ship>
from the Soviet Union in a move to protect its oil exports through the Mideast Gulf , diplomatic sources said . They said the agreement followed months of talks with the Soviet Union and the U.S. On ways to secure its oil exports after Iran started to attack Kuwaiti-connected vessels in retaliation for Kuwait 's backing for Iran 's war enemy Iraq. Diplomats said they expect three Soviet tankers initially to reinforce other flags already supporting Kuwait 's 22-tanker fleet . The diplomats said they knew of no deal for Moscow to provide a naval escort for its own vessels , but " the idea of protection is implicit , " one said . They said Soviet cargo ships bound for Kuwait in the past to unload arms and materiel for road delivery to Iraq were known to have sailed under escort . So far , none of the Soviet ships are known to have been attacked by Iran . Diplomats said they expected the chartered Soviet tankers to sail between Kuwait and Khor Fakkan on the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) coast a short way outside the Strait of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf . Reuter 
<TEST	16383	money-fx	interest>
Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements , a Fed spokesman said . Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/2 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system . Most had expected the Fed to supply reserves directly via System repurchase agreements or to add them indirectly through two billion dlrs or more of customer repurchase agreements . Some believe the Fed is adding fewer reserves than are needed to keep upward pressure on rates and so help the dollar . Reuter 
<TEST	16407	interest>
broker loan rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct , effective immediately . Bankers Trust Co <BT> , which also quotes its broker loan rate publicly , raised its rate to 7-1/2 pct earlier today . Reuter 
<TEST	16429	crude>
of the Villespedue oil field in France 's Paris Basin were estimated at a total of 67.5 mln barrels on March one , up 39 pct from 48.7 mln barrels on May 31 , 1986 . Triton said its 60 pct owned <Triton Europe Plc > subsidiary has a 50 pct interest in the field which is located 50 miles east of Paris . The other 50 pct is held by <Total Exploration S.A.> , the field 's operator . Reuter 
<TEST	16438	crude>
been awarded to <CBS Engineering Inc> for a drilling and production platform to be installed in Ewing Bank Block 826 in the Gulf of Mexico where Standard and Mobil Corp each own a 40 pct interest . Standard said its Standard Oil Production Co subsidiary will operate the platform which is being designed to produce 15,000 barrels of oil and 50 mln cubic feet of gas daily . The platform is now expected to be installed in the summer of 1988 . Other owners are Kerr-McGee Corp <KM G> with 16.66 pct and <Prudential Insurance Co of America > with 3.34 pct . Reuter 
<TEST	16442	trade>
trade figures to be reported Tuesday by the Commerce Department will be on a new basis reflecting more recent data , so avoiding future revisions of the monthly figure , Commerce officials said . The overall January deficit of 14.8 billion dlrs will be revised , but the February figure will be a final one , officials said . Previously , the initial monthly figure has had to be revised in subsequent months because of the time lag between the report and the compiling of final estimates on imports and exports . The reporting of the February trade data was delayed several weeks to permit gathering latest figures on imports and exports to give a clearer picture of the monthly trade balance . Reuter 
<TEST	16505	trade>
trade figures to be reported Tuesday by the Commerce Department will be on a new basis reflecting more recent data , so avoiding future revisions of the monthly figure , Commerce officials said . The overall January deficit of 14.8 billion dlrs will be revised , but the February figure will be a final one , officials said . Previously , the initial monthly figure has had to be revised in subsequent months because of the time lag between the report and the compiling of final estimates on imports and exports . The reporting of the February trade data was delayed several weeks to permit gathering latest figures on imports and exports to give a clearer picture of the monthly trade balance . Reuter 
<TEST	16525	grain	corn	wheat>
today 's weekly U.S. corn export inspection figure to be well above last year , with wheat slightly better and soybeans about the same . Corn export inspection guesses ranged from 40.0 to 44.0 mln bushels for the week ended April 9 , compared up 46.6 mln inspected a week earlier and 15.2 mln in the year-ago week . Soybean export estimates ranged from 12.0 to 15.0 mln bushels versus 10.8 mln exported last week and 13.2 mln last year . Export guesses for all wheat ranged from 16.0 to 20.0 mln bushels , compared with 16.4 mln last week and 11.2 mln last year . Reuter 
<TEST	16565	interest	money-fx>
lending rates again within days due to recent increases in their borrowing costs and speculation the Federal Reserve is nudging up interest rates to help the dollar , economists said . In what was the first prime rate boost since mid-1984 , most banks in early April lifted their rates a quarter point to 7-3/4 pct , citing a reduced gap between the prime and their own cost of money . That spread has narrowed again . " A prime rate increase could happen as soon as tonight , " said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International Inc. Brusca said a quarter-point prime rate rise to eight pct is justified because the spread between banks ' cost of funds and the prime rate has narrowed to less than three quarters of a percentage point . He said that spread had averaged around 1.4 percentage points since last October until it fell below one point and triggered the April prime rate rise at most banks . " We could easily have another prime rate increase as soon as this week , " said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co. " We 've got a fairly good chance of a prime rate rise in the near future , " said Allan Leslie of Discount Corp. " Based on the spread between the prime rate and funding costs , you would ordinarily see a prime rate increase now ," said Harold Nathan , economist at Wells Fargo Bank . However , he said banks may be reluctant to lift the prime because that would dampen already fairly weak business loan demand and because some are not sure the Fed will maintain recent upward pressure on money market interest rates . Nathan believes the Fed has let market pressures lift short-term rates in recent days to help the ailing dollar . He said " if there is widespread belief money market rates will stay high , a prime rate rise could occur at any time . " Fed officials have long expressed concern that too steep a dollar drop could help rekindle U.S. inflation . As the dollar fell to a 40-year low against the yen Friday , currency traders said the Fed and other central banks supported the dollar . In addition to buying dollars outright , another way to stabilize the U.S. currency would be for the Fed to push U.S. interest rates higher relative to overseas rates . Based particularly on the Fed 's reserve management actions on Friday and today , Nathan of Wells Fargo said " it has become clear that the Fed is not fully resisting upward rate pressure in the market . It is supplying fewer reserves than are needed . " Bank funding costs and other short and long-term interest rates rose sharply Friday and today on heightened speculation that the Fed is gently firming monetary policy . That was because the Fed supplied far fewer reserves in the market than most economists had expected . On Friday , the Fed added reserves indirectly and in small amounts via one billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements with the Federal funds rate at which banks lend to one another high at 6-5/16 pct . With funds trading even higher at 6-1/2 pct today , the Fed arranged only a slightly larger 1.5 billion dlr round of customer repurchase agreements . " The Fed 's actions on Friday and today show that it is offering only token resistance to upward funds rate pressures , " said Jones of Lanston . " The Fed is focusing its policy attention mainly on the need to defend the dollar , " Jones said . He believes it is merely shading policy toward restraint now , " but to have a major impact on the dollar , the Fed will have to tighten policy overtly at some point . " Jones expects the Fed to foster higher market rates by becoming more restrictive in supplying reserves and , within four to six weeks , to raise its discount rate from 5-1/2 pct . Jones said a U.S. discount rate increase to six pct might well be accompanied by West German and Japanese rate cuts to further aid the dollar . Given likely Fed policy firming , he said both the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds ( about 8.30 pct now ) and the prime rate may be at 8-1/2 pct at end-June and nine pct by year 's end . " The jury is still out on whether the Fed is tightening policy to defend the dollar , " said Leslie of Discount Corp. He said tax-date pressures have been pushing up Fed funds lately . Leslie said Fed actions and reserve data once these pressures abate will show whether or not it is firming policy . Reuter 
<TEST	16593	crude>
Union Exploration Co Inc unit said it entered a 200 mln dlr three-year gas and oil exploration and development venture with Smith Offshore Exploration Co. The agreement calls for drilling of 10 to 12 offshore wells per year , primarily in the Gulf of Mexico area off the Texas and Louisiana coasts and 30 to 40 onshore Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast wells . Reuter 
<TEST	16601	grain>
CCC , has authorized 3.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees for sales of U.S. rice to Algeria for fiscal year 1987 under the Export Credit Guarantee Program , GSM-102 , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . The additional guarantees increase the cumulative fiscal year 1987 program for sales of U.S. agricultural products to Algeria to 469.0 mln dlrs . To be eligible for the credit guarantee coverage , all sales under the new line must be registered and exported by September 30 , 1987 , the department aid . Reuter 
<TEST	16607	crude>
in coming weeks amid signs of a significant rise in supplies of oil to international oil markets , the Kuwait daily al-Qabas said . In an article headlined , " Gulf oil sources say Middle East production up 1.4 mln bpd , " it warned OPEC 's official prices could face fresh pressure from international oil companies seeking cheaper supplies . It did not say whether only OPEC or both OPEC and other producers were behind the reported rise in Mideast output . Nor did it specify if the sources were official or other contacts . " The sources said the credibility of OPEC would come under fresh scrutiny from today ( Monday ) , with activity in the European and American markets , " the daily said . The sources were quoted as saying that after OPEC had in March demonstrated its commitment to quota agreements , some members had raised output last week . It gave no details . " Dealers in oil markets were now waiting to see if Opec was able to control production , or whether the days of cheating and producing over quotas has begun anew , " it said . The sources warned that " maybe the ( price of a ) barrel of oil will fall below 18 , perhaps 17.80 dlrs this week or next if there is no control on supplie s , " it said . " The sources believed a return of oil below 18 dlrs a barrel may open the doors for international oil companies to pressure OPEC over contract prices , similar to the struggle last March , " it said , apparently referring to resistance by buyers to lift from Qatar unless it gave price discounts . " More than one official has warned OPEC would find its solidarity under scrutiny by the end of April or start of May , " it said , noting demand usually fell with the onset of summer . Reuter 
<TEST	16636	crude>
oil supply lines following yesterday 's court filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankrupcty code , said Elton Yates , Texaco 's coordinator of worldwide operations . " Several companies say they are willing to start trading , " Yates told Reuters in an interview . The company last week had stated that a number of domestic and international oil suppliers were demanding cash for oil shipments , and in some cases , had cut supplies altogether . Banks had also cut credit lines , it said in court filings . Manufacturers Hanover Corp <MHC> and other banks told Texaco it would cut off a one billion dlr credit line , Texaco said in the court filing . Chase Manhattan Corp <CMB> and J.P. Morgan Co 's <JPM> Morgan Guaranty Trust Co asked for deposits to cover transactions , it said . The severe conditions with suppliers and creditors arose from an unfavorable ruling last Monday by the U.S. Supreme Court in Texaco 's ongoing dispute with Pennzoil Co <PZL> over the acquisition of Getty Oil Co in 1984 . The High Court said Texas Courts must consider Texaco 's plea to cut its 10.3 billion dlr bond while appealing the case . " Most of the suppliers stayed with us as long as they could , " Elton said . But following Monday 's Supreme Court ruling , Texaco 's suppliers began demanding cash and halting supplies . " It was n't until last Wednesday that it turned into an avalanche , " he said . " Supplies were cut to the point where we could not run the system at anywhere near capacity . " He said less than half of Texaco 's oil supplies had been in jeapordy , but the cut off would have produced severe shortages by mid-May . Now the situation appears much less severe , Elton said . It said that Sonatrach , the Algerian national oil company , canceled future deliveries of crude oil and natural gas , Occidental Petroleum Co <OXY> demanded cash for crude , and Atlantic Richfield Co <AR C> asked for special safeguards . The company also said British Petroleum Co PLC <BP> last week refused to accept an order for fuel oil . But Yates today said , " a big U.K. company has in fact said they would go on supplying . They had cancelled last week . " He declined to identify the company . <Petroleos de Venezuela S.A.> , the Venezuelan state oil company that supplies a large portion of Texaco 's oil , also halted shipments two weeks ago , Yates said . But he added that Texaco expected to meet with the Venezuelans later today in an attempt to reestablish that key supply line . Talks were also expected to take place with the Algerians , he added . Bankruptcy specialists said it was likely Texaco 's chapter 11 filing would allow the company to secure its credit lines and oil supplies that are key to the company 's business . " It will be business as usual for Texaco , " said Martin Klein , a bankruptcy attorney at the New York law firm Dreyer and Traub . " Creditors are a nervous bunch of people ," he said . " But when the dust settles they will reevaluate the situation and will likely extend credit to the chapter 11 company . " But other officials at Texaco were not immediately available to say whether discussions were being held with its banks , or whether credit lines had been reestablished . Reuter 
<TEST	16649	crude>
in coming weeks amid signs of a significant rise in supplies of oil to international oil markets , the Kuwait daily al-Qabas said . In an article headlined " Gulf oil sources say Middle East production up 1.4 mln bp d " and " Markets witness new surplus amid whispers of return to cheating days , " it warned OPEC 's official prices could face fresh pressure from international oil companies seeking cheaper supplies . It did not say whether only OPEC or Opec and other producers were behind the reported rise in Mideast output . Nor did it specify if the sources were official or other contacts . " The sources said the credibility of OPEC would come under fresh scrutiny from Monday , with activity in the European and American markets , " it said . The sources were quoted as saying that after Opec had in March demonstrated its commitment to quota agreements , some members had raised output last week . It gave no details . " Dealers in oil markets were now waiting to see if Opec was able to control production , or whether the days of cheating and producing over quotas has begun anew , " it reported . " The sources warned that maybe the ( price of a ) barrel of oil will fall below 18 , perhaps 17.80 dlrs this week or next if there is no control on supplies . " The sources believed a return of oil below 18 dlrs a barrel may open the doors for international oil companies to pressure Opec over contract prices , similar to the struggle last March , " it said , apparently referring to resistance by buyers to lift from Qatar unless it gave price discounts . " More than one official has warned Opec would find its solidarity under scrutiny by the end of April or start of May , " it said , noting demand usually fell with the onset of summer . Reuter 
<TEST	16651	crude>
approved in final form an agreement that resolves all remaining issues with Shell Oil Co over oil pricing and allocation controls that ended in 1981 . Under the agreement , The Royal Dutch/Shell Group unit agreed to pay 20 mln dlrs to settle refiner pricing issues and 160 mln dlrs to settle crude oil pricing issues , DOE said . DOE said that before making the pact final , it modified it to reflect Shell 's compliance with the Tertiary Incentive Program , a provision not in the version published last Dec 31 . reuter 
<TEST	16658	crude>
in remarks published today the emirate , largest producer in the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) , was succeeding in marketing its crude oil without breaching OPEC accords . Khalaf al-Oteiba , Marketing Director at the Abu Dhabi National Oil Co ( ADN OC ) , told the company 's Petroleum Community magazine ADNOC was also keen to keep good customer relations . " The company will maintain its dialogue with and care for its customers in accordance with market conditions ...And take necessary steps to guarantee marketing its production , " he said . " The present oil marketing policy of ADNOC is based on adherence to OPEC decisions of December 1986 to control production and establish a new pricing system in an attempt to stabilize the market ," he added . OPEC agreed last December to limit production to 15.8 mln bpd and return to fixed prices averaging 18 dlrs a barrel . Oteiba said stabilization of the oil market in the future depended on how much discipline OPEC showed . Oteiba said last year , when world oil prices dropped , was ADN OC 's most difficult ever but " a practical and flexible pricing policy was implemented to relate to the changed market environment . " He said crude oil sales last year jumped to an average 609,000 bpd of which 73 pct was exported . Refined product sales totalled eight mln metric tonnes , of which 67 pct was exported . In 1985 , ADNOC marketed a total of 476,000 bpd of crude oil and 7.2 mln tonnes of refined products . Reuter 
<TEST	16681	interest>
auction of three-month bills produced an average rate of 5.98 pct , with a 6.08 pct rate on six-month bills . These rates compared with averages of 5.53 pct for the three and 5.63 pct for the six-month bills sold last week . The bond-equivalent yield on three-month bills was 6.17 pct . Accepted bids ranges from 5.92 to 5.99 pct and 60 pct of the bids at the high , or stopout rate , were taken . For six months , the yield was 6.38 pct and the bids ranged from 5.98 pct to 6.10 pct with 48 pct of the bids accepted . The Treasury said it received 25.99 billion dlrs of bids for the three-month bills , including 1.2 billion dlrs in non-competitive bids from the public . It accepted 6.6 billion dlrs of bids , including 2.1 billion dlrs from the Federal Reserve and 180 mln dlrs from foreign and international monetary authorities . Some 24.7 billion dlrs in bids for six-month bills were received , including 832 mln dlrs in non-competitives . The Treasury accepted 6.6 billion dlrs , including 1.8 billion dlrs from the Fed and 1.2 billion dlrs from foreign and international authorities . The average price for the three-month bills was 98.488 and prices ranged from 98.504 to 98.486 . The average price for the six-mont hs bills was 96.926 , and prices ranged from 96.977 to 96.916 . The average yield on the three-month bills was the highest since 5.99 pct on June 30 , 1986 . The average yield on the six-month bills was the highest since 6.13 pct on June 23 , 1986 . Reuter 
<TEST	16710	crude>
acquired a 25 pct working interest in the Gulf of Suez oil concession for undisclosed terms . The company said its agreement with operator Conoco Hurghada Inc and Hispanoil covered the 168,374-acre East Hurghada offshore concession . It said a 15.6 mln U.S. dlr four-well program was planned for 1987 . After the acquisition , which is subject to Egyptian government approval , working interests in the Hurghada block will be Conoco Hurghada at 45 pct , Hispanoil 30 pct and Gulf Canada the balance . Reuter 
<TEST	16723	crude>
filing for protection under the Chapter 11 bankruptcy code is adding uncertainty to an already skittish oil market , but opinions are divided on the impact to the market . " The filing is holding up wet barrel trading today , " said one trader . " Everyone is talking about it , assessing their company 's situations in relation to Texaco , " he added . Some traders said companies that deal with Texaco are concerned about whether they will receive payment or supplies under the bankruptcy filing . However , others were less worried . " The first paid will be the trading community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry , " one New York trader said . " If Texaco does n't get crude supplies it ca n't run its refineries , so its other assets would not be worth anything ," he added . Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally interferring with Pennzoil 's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co. However , others were less worried . " The first paid will be the trading community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry , " one New York trader said . " If Texaco does n't get crude supplies it ca n't run its refineries , so its other assets would not be worth anything ," he added . Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally interferring with Pennzoil 's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co. " There is some reluctance to trade with Texaco but no great change , " said another trader , adding that traders are tending toward prudence in their dealings with the company . Traders are assessing whether to require cash prepayment or letters of credit , or to continue to trade as usual with Texaco on an open line basis , he said . Another trader , however , described today 's activity as business as usual , adding that traders feel more secure because no liens can be put on Texaco 's assets while it is in bankruptcy . Traders said there was no apparent effect of the Texaco filing on crude futures trading although they said the exchange might lower Texaco 's position limit and require higher margins for Texaco 's trades . New York Mercantile Exchange President Rosemary McFadden declined to comment on Texaco 's futures trading , saying that is is proprietary information . McFadden did say , however , that as a matter of procedure , it is possible the exchange can lower allowable position limits or increase margin requirements for companies that are in financial trouble . Reuter 
<TEST	16739	crude>
next week to fill up storage tanks as a first step to pump oil to a Colombian pipeline on May one , the state Ecuadorean Petroleum Corp ( CEPE ) said . CEPE manager Carlos Romoleroux told reporters that Ecuador would begin pumping an unspecified amount of crude in northeastern jungle oilfields at the end of next week in preparation to send the oil through a new pipeline link-up to neighbouring Colombia . Oil production in Ecuador was halted on March five when an earthquake damaged the country 's main pipeline from Lago Agrio , at the heart of the Ecuadorean jungle oilfields , to the pacific port of Balao . It will take at least until the end of July to repair the pipeline and return output to normal levels . The country was pumping between 245,000 bpd and 250,000 bpd before the tremor . To resume limited output in the meantime , Ecuador is constructing a 26 mile pipeline linkup , capable of carrying 55,000 bpd , from Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon , the starting point of Colombia 's pipeline to the Pacific port of Tumaco . The original target date to resume limited crude output was May eight , the scheduled date for the inauguration of the Lago Agrio to Puerto Colon pipeline , an energy ministry spokesman said . Reuter 
<TEST	16744	money-fx>
buy dollars just after the market opened , dealers said . The dollar opened at 142.05 yen against 142.15/25 in New York and 142.50 at the close here yesterday . The bank stepped into the market amid selling pressure from interbank dealers , dealers said . REUTER 
<TEST	16745	trade>
told a press conference he expects the U.S. Trade deficit to eventually start reflecting economic fundamentals , which should influence exchange rates . The minister was not referring to the U.S. Trade data to be released in Washington later today . Miyazawa also said he told major industrial nations when he was in Washington last week that present exchange rates are not necessarily good . He had said earlier in Washington that current exchange rates were within levels implied in the February Paris currency accord . REUTER 
<TEST	16751	grain	corn>
South African maize between January 1 and April 13 , the joint committee of local maize importers said . Under a three-year agreement signed last year , South Africa will export 600,000 tonnes of maize a year to Taiwan . A committee spokesman told Reuters the rest of this year 's quota will be shipped during the rest of 1987 . REUTER 
<TEST	16753	grain>
for the sixth successive year because high production costs and low profits discourage farmers from growing it , the China Daily Business Weekly said . It said sorghum output in calendar 1986 was 5.34 mln tonnes , down five pct from the 1985 level , and prices on the free market rose in January to 0.42 yuan per kg , up 14 pct on January 1986 . It said sorghum acreage in 1987 is six pct lower than in 1986 . Sorghum accounts for 40 pct of the raw materials needed by China 's breweries , it added but gave no more details . REUTER 
<TEST	16762	crude>
of its oil exports to Japan through expanding bilateral trade , Saudi Arabian Interior Minister Naif bin Ab dul-Aziz said . He told a Tokyo reception his country hopes to raise crude and products exports to Japan to earlier levels , but did not elaborate . To promote trade , Saudi Arabia is inviting Japanese industries to do business there , he said . Japanese firms now have long-term contracts to import a total of 150,000 barrels per day of Saudi crude . REUTER 
<TEST	16763	grain	trade>
has asked Japan to open its farm market further to help Washington cut its trade deficit and ease protectionist pressures , an Agriculture Ministry official told reporters . Hideo Maki , Director General of the ministry 's Economic Affairs Bureau , quoted Lyng as telling Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato that the removal of import restrictions would help Japan as well as the United States . The meeting with Kato opened a 12-day visit to Japan by Lyng , who is here to dicuss farm trade . However , Maki quoted Kato as replying that Japan was already the world 's largest grain importer . Kato added Japan is the largest customer for U.S. Grain and depended on domestic output for only 53 pct of its food requirements in 1985 . Lyng said the U.S. Put high priority on talks on 12 farm products named in U.S. Complaints against Japan to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) last year , as well as on beef , citrus products and rice . Kato said Japan will maintain its current level of self-sufficiency and will try not to produce surplus rice because potential production is higher than domestic demand . The world farm market suffers from surpluses because of rising production by exporting countries , he added . Lyng said the U.S. Has been trying to reduce farm product output with expensive programs , Maki said . Maki said the U.S. And Japan will hold detailed discussions on each trade item as well as a new round of GATT trade talks at a meeting on April 20 , in which U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter will join . REUTER 
<TEST	16765	grain	corn>
mln pesos have been smuggled into the Philippines over the past few months , the Manila Bulletin newspaper said , quoting an official in the National Food Authority ( NF A ) . The official , who was not named , said a large corn shortage and corruption among customs and Coast Guard personnel have jeopardised the government 's ban on corn imports , which was aimed at saving foreign currency . The newspaper quoted NFA Marketing Director Jig Tan as saying monthly corn consumption stood at about 331,000 tonnes against a national stock inventory of 191,732 tonnes . Tan said a continuing drought affecting about 49,150 hectares of corn has led to the loss of 43,725 tonnes of corn worth 174.9 mln pesos and contributed to the shortage . The newspaper quoted Linda Geraldez , an NFA statistician , as saying despite the drought and the shortage , the total inventory at the end of the January/June crop season is expected to be at least 201,000 tonnes . REUTER 
<TEST	16766	trade>
Commerce Department yesterday issued a new report showing that the U.S. Merchandise trade deficit was 13.65 billion dollars in February , a reduction of 1.4 billion dlrs from the 15.06 billion figure the department reported only two days earlier . The newspaper said " News of the unexpectedly large 15 billion deficit helped batter the dollar 's value on foreign exchange markets and boosted U.S. Interest rates . " However , the new report went largely unnoticed by financial markets since such a downward revision in the deficit is a monthly occurrence . " The Washington Post said "By law , the department must first publish what a top commerce official agreed are misleading trade figures and then wait 48 hours before putting out the more accurate ones . " No one was immediately available at the Commerce Department for comment on the Washington Post report . REUTER 
<TEST	16770	money-fx>
( LDP ) will call for adequate and flexible management of the nation 's monetary polices in its plan to expand domestic demand , a senior LDP official told Reuters . Junichiro Koizumi , the head of the LDP committee working out the plan , said the phrase should not be taken as implying an immediate cut in Japan 's 2.5 pct discount rate . " The LDP generally believes that there is no need for a further discount rate cut at the moment , " he said . But Koizumi said the LDP does not rule out a rate cut if necessary in the future . Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita told a press conference on Wednesday that the central bank does not have any intention of easing credit conditions . REUTER 
<TEST	16774	trade>
has drawn up a detailed plan calling for large tax cuts and an increase in government purchases of foreign goods , the head of the committee working out the plan , Junichiro Koizumi , said . The plan will also urge the government to double 1985 's official development assistance to 7.6 billion dlrs within five years instead of seven as the government had promised , senior LDP officials said at a press conference . LDP executive council chairman Shintaro Abe will explain the plan to U.S. Officials when he visits the U.S. On April 19 . Abe 's visit is to prepare for Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone 's talks with President Ronald Reagan later this month . Koizumi said the LDP plan will not specify the size of the tax cut or the amount of domestic demand to be stimulated . However , top LDP executives will work out figures so that Abe will be able to offer specifics to U.S. O fficials . The proposed increase in procurement of foreign goods by the government will probably include the purchase of super computers , LDP officials said . specific trade problems with other nations and will encourage flows of funds to developing countries , the officials said . The LDP expects the measures to prop up the economy and lessen trade problems with the U.S. , They added . The basic ideas of the LDP 's plan were presented to and welcomed by monetary authorities of the major industrial nations in Washington last week , they said . The LDP plan will form the basis for the last of several packages to stimulate Japanese domestic demand and will be unveiled by the government in late May . REUTER 
<TEST	16775	trade>
quarter fell to 1.05 billion dlrs from 3.04 billion in the same 1986 period , customs figures show . Zhang Zhongji , spokesman of the State Statistical Bureau , quoted the figures as showing exports rose 27 pct to 7.28 billion dlrs and imports fell 5.1 pct to 8.33 billion . He said if imports of gifts , foreign aid items and materials for joint ventures are excluded , the deficit was only 350 mln dlrs , and the surplus on invisibles was 700 mln . As a result , foreign exchange reserves increased somewhat from their level at end-1986 , he said , but gave no figure . Official figures show the reserves at 10.514 billion dlrs at end-1986 , down from 11.9 billion at end-1985 . Zhang said one reason for the rise in exports was improved incentives to export firms , which are being allowed to retain more foreign exchange from the goods they sell . He said first quarter exports to Hong Kong and Macao rose 35.5 pct to 2.48 billion dlrs and imports rose 55.3 pct to 1.46 billion . Exports to Japan fell 2.3 pct to 1.28 billion and imports 24.4 pct to 2.14 billion . Exports to the U.S. Rose 23 pct to 640 mln dlrs and imports fell 26.7 pct to 840 mln . Exports to the EEC rose 35.1 pct to 770 mln dlrs and imports fell 3.8 pct to 1.5 billion , he said . REUTER 
<TEST	16777	trade>
sector is a key to shifting its economy away from export to domestic-led growth , a vital step if it is to trim its trade surplus , securities analysts said . The farm sector , which is protected by import tariffs and quotas , propped up by subsidies and price supports , and sheltered by the tax system , has ample room for change , they said . " In economic terms , reform would be a plus , " said Christopher Chew of brokerage firm James Capel and Co. The ultimate cost of the existing system is food prices twice those in Europe and two to three times those in the U.S. , The analysts said . Spending on food accounts for about one quarter of the average household 's budget and roughly 10 pct of the gross national product ( G NP ) , according to a study by Chew . Reducing these prices could increase household spending power by five pct , his study said . The money could be spent on products which would have a more direct impact in boosting domestic growth , it added . " There 's a lot of slack , " a U.S. Government official in Tokyo said . " All that money could be spent on something else . " Direct central government subsidies to the farm sector amount to some five billion dlrs per year . Independent estimates put total subsidies from all sources as high as 37 billion and the analysts said much of that money is wasted . Changing tax laws to encourage city residents who only farm on weekends to put their land up for sale for residential development would also give a boost to domestic spending , economists said . " Housing construction is the key strategic variable in the expansion of domestic demand , " wrote Chihiro Nakajima , professor at Kyoto Gakuen University . Japanese business groups are calling for staged farm reform to shift some of the burden of trade friction and economic restructuring away from the manufacturing sector and onto the farm sector . Employers groups also want change . " If you really want to expand domestic demand , the way to do it is not to raise wages recklessly , but to reduce commodity prices , " Bumpei Otsuki , President of the Japan Federation of Employers ' Associations told a recent press conference . External pressures are rising as the U.S. And Europe seek removal of tariffs and quotas to help reduce their trade deficits with Japan . But vested Japanese interests opposed to change remain well entrenched , dimming prospects for quick reform , analysts said . Although the full-time farm population is falling and there are signs the LDP is paying more attention to urban constitue ncies , the ruling party remains heavily dependent on farm votes in the rural areas . One rural vote is worth several city votes due to the pattern of constituency borders . The LDP is already in political trouble over its tax reform plan and does not want to raise another sticky issue so soon , the analysts said . Consumer groups are politically weak and tend to accept the traditional view that higher prices are a small fee to pay for national food security , they said . Powerful agricultural cooperatives are fiercely opposed to import liberalisation , but are more flexible about reforms aimed at stepping up produc ti vity , they said . Reform , when it comes , will be in response to specific pressure rather than an all-embracing program , said Chew . REUTER 
<TEST	16784	trade>
opens talks with Japanese government officials today well aware his demand for the opening of Japanese rice , beef and citrus markets is likely to be rejected . But in an interview with Reuters during the flight to Tokyo yesterday , Lyng said the goal of his trip was to throw an international spotlight on Japan 's agricultural import protection in the hope pressure would build on Tokyo to open its markets . " ( The Japanese ) have said they are happy we are coming , but they are not going to give us anything ," Lyng said . U.S. Officials do not expect any Japanese concessions during Lyng 's two-week visit here . Any farm trade concessions would be unveiled later this month , they said . " If there is anything of consequence to offer ( Prime Minister Yasuhiro ) Nakasone would take it with him , " when he visits Washington later in the month , one U.S. Official said . Lyng plans to ask Japan to open the door to rice imports by partially lifting the longstanding ban on foreign purchases . A private U.S. Rice trader visited Tokyo last week requesting Japan buy 200,000 tonnes of rice for industrial uses such as making sake . Japan has rejected the overture , saying Tokyo maintains a policy of self-sufficiency in rice . Lyng will also press Japan to eliminate an import quota for beef by April 1988 because he believes Japanese consumers would like to buy much more beef than currently allowed . He cited the example of a California company which transports live U.S. Cattle to Japan by air for slaughter to circumvent the beef quota . The cost of transport is higher than the value of the animal , he said . U.S. Officials said the Japan Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation which regulates beef imports , was forced to borrow from the fiscal 1987 quota earlier this year because the 1986 quota was exhausted and Japanese beef prices were rising . Japan has said it cannot open its markets to beef imports . Along with beef , the U.S. Will also press Japan to eliminate import quotas on fresh oranges and orange juice by April , 1988 . Some U.S. Officials believe Japan may eventually be willing to scrap the quota on fresh oranges because liberalized trade would not necessarily damage the Japanese mandarin orange industry . The quota on juice may be harder to eliminate because imports might replace domestic produced juice , U.S. And Japanese officials have said . Lyng has resurrected a past U.S. Proposal that Japan buy surplus U.S. Foodgrains for donation to developing countries , but some U.S. Officials are skeptical action will be taken . Lyng will also urge Japan to put its domestic farm policies , including rice , on the negotiating table during GATT talks in Geneva . He said Japan must eliminate import quotas on certain minor food products or face possible U.S. Reprisals . REUTER 
<TEST	16787	trade>
has drawn up a detailed plan calling for large tax cuts and an increase in government purchases of foreign goods , the head of the committee working out the plan , Junichiro Koizumi , said . The plan will also urge the government to double 1985 's official development assistance to 7.6 billion dlrs within five years instead of seven as the government had promised , senior LDP officials said at a press conference . LDP executive council chairman Shintaro Abe will explain the plan to U.S. Officials when he visits the U.S. On April 19 . Abe 's visit is to prepare for Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone 's talks with President Ronald Reagan later this month . Koizumi said the LDP plan will not specify the size of the tax cut or the amount of domestic demand to be stimulated . However , top LDP executives will work out figures so that Abe will be able to offer specifics to U.S. O fficials . The proposed increase in procurement of foreign goods by the government will probably include the purchase of super computers , LDP officials said . According to the plan , Japan will also strive to solve specific trade problems with other nations and will encourage flows of funds to developing countries , the officials said . The LDP expects the measures to prop up the economy and lessen trade problems with the U.S. , They added . The basic ideas of the LDP 's plan were presented to and welcomed by monetary authorities of the major industrial nations in Washington last week , they said . The LDP plan will form the basis for the last of several packages to stimulate Japanese domestic demand and will be unveiled by the government in late May . REUTER 
<TEST	16788	trade>
Baldrige leaves on Saturday on a 10-day trip to the Far East to help spur U.S. Trade and improve business relations with China , South Korea and the Philippines , U.S. Officials say . Baldrige will also stop in Hong Kong to meet British officials and local U.S. And Hong Kong businessmen . The U.S. Last year had major deficits with three of its Asian trading partners South Korea 7.1 billion dlrs , Hong Kong 6.4 billion and China 2.1 billion . The deficit with the Philippines was 800 mln dlrs . Baldrige will meet South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan and Trade Minister Rha Woong Bae on Monday to discuss opening South Korean markets to more U.S. Goods . Baldrige will be in Peking from April 21 to 24 . He will meet Zheng Tuobin , minister for foreign economic relations and trade , attend a meeting of the U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade and address a management and training organisation . However , U.S. Officials said a chief purpose of Baldrige 's visit would be to discuss relaxed U.S. Rules for transferring modern technology to Chinese industries . In Hong Kong , Baldrige will hold meetings on April 27 with Governor David Wilson and Trade and Industry Secretary Eric Ho , as well as addressing the American Chamber of Commerce . U.S. Officials said Baldrige will meet Philippines President Corazon Aquino on April 28 to show continued U.S. Support for her government and to discuss steps it could take to improve the atmosphere for American investment . He will also will meet Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin and Trade and Industry Secretary Jose Concepcion . REUTER 
<TEST	16790	trade	grain>
has asked Japan to open its farm market further to help Washington cut its trade deficit and ease protectionist pressures , an Agriculture Ministry official told reporters . Hideo Maki , Director General of the ministry 's Economic Affairs Bureau , quoted Lyng as telling Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato that the removal of import restrictions would help Japan as well as the United States . The meeting with Kato opened a 12-day visit to Japan by Lyng , who is here to dicuss farm trade . However , Maki quoted Kato as replying that Japan was already the world 's largest grain importer . Kato added Japan is the largest customer for U.S. Grain and depended on domestic output for only 53 pct of its food requirements in 1985 . Lyng said the U.S. Put high priority on talks on 12 farm products named in U.S. Complaints against Japan to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) last year , as well as on beef , citrus products and rice . Kato said Japan will maintain its current level of self-sufficiency and will try not to produce surplus rice because potential production is higher than domestic demand . The world farm market suffers from surpluses because of rising production by exporting countries , he added . Lyng said the U.S. Has been trying to reduce farm product output with expensive programs , Maki said . Maki said the U.S. And Japan will hold detailed discussions on each trade item as well as a new round of GATT trade talks at a meeting on April 20 , in which U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter will join . REUTER 
<TEST	16794	trade>
announce a decision on tough new tariffs on Japanese exports to retaliate for what he calls Japan 's failure to end its unfair practices in semiconductor trade . The 100 pct tariffs are to be imposed on 300 mln dlrs of Japanese goods recommended for curbs by a special panel of experts headed by the U.S. Trade Representative 's Office . Reagan announced last March 27 he would impose the tariffs on certain goods taken from a list that ranged from computors and television sets to power tools and photographic film . The panel this week winnowed through the list of the some 20 products and sent their recommendations yesterday to Santa Barb ara , where Reagan is vacationing . In his March annoucement , Reagan said " I am committed to full enforcement of our trade agreements designed to provide American industry with free and fair trade opportunities . " He added the tariffs would be lifted once Japan honored the pact it signed last year to end dumping semiconductors in world markets and opened its home market to U.S. products . U.S. officials said Japan had done nothing since the March announcement to alter Reagan 's plan to invoke the sanctions . White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said yesterday " we do not want a trade war , but we feel that this is the kind of action that requires meaningful action . " Reagan 's move follows steadily rising U.S. trade deicits , with last year 's hitting a record $ 169.8 billion . About one-third of the deficit is in trade with Japan . Congress is weighing a trade bill to force the president to retaliate in certain cases of unfair trade practices . He has opposed the legislation , saying it would prevent negotiated solutions to trade disputes and , in any case , that existing law was adqeuate to end unfair trade practices . Trade experts say his tough action against the Japanese was as much to penalize the Japanese as to show Congress he did not need any new trade legislation . The Japanese have complained that they have been honoring the semiconductor pact , but that it would take time before the results showed up . U.S. officials , however , have said their monitoring of Japanese semiconductor shipments to East Asian countries and Western Europe showed no letup in the dumping and that the Japanese home markets remained shut to American exports . Japan has said that if Reagan imposed the tariffs , it would file a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariff and Trade ( GATT ) . It said hoped GATT would find the U.S. retaliation had violated the regulations of the global trading group and would approve compensation or Japanese retaliation . U.S. officials have said they did not think Japan would retaliate because it had too much to lose in any trade war with the United States . Reuter 
<TEST	16852	interest>
Miller said he was concerned that the Federal Reserve might " overreact " to the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar by raising interest rates , a move he said could cause a recession next year . "Our greatest danger is overreaction , " Miller told newspaper reporters yesterday . " I 'm concerned about the Fed 's overreaction . I 'm concerned about what I see in recent data showing a substantial fall in the money supply . " Edwin Dale , Miller 's spokesman , said the remarks , published in the New York Times today , were accurate . Miller said he was concerned the Fed might overreact to signals of rising inflation by tightening credit a move he said could have " political consequences . " The White House budget chief appeared to be referring to the effect an economic slowdown could have on the presidential and congressional elections next year . " My fear is that if we get into a recession we are in deep soup , and there is no question about it , " he said . Miller said an economic slowdown could lead to lower tax revenues and a widening of the budget deficit . Miller 's remarks reflected concern that the U.S. central bank might feel compelled to tighten credit as a means of bolstering the dollar . Both Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker recently have warned that further declines in the value of the U.S. dollar could jeopardize global growth prospects . U.S. officials have urged Japan and West Germany to stimulate economic growth in their countries a move that could boost U.S. exports and relieve trade protectionist pressures in the United States . Reuter 
<TEST	16856	trade>
Yeutter said it was all but certain President Reagan would go ahead today and impose curbs on Japanese exports as planned . Asked in a television interview what the chance was for Reagan to cancel the scheduled 100 pct tariffs on Japanese electronic exports , he said " slim to none . " Reagan announced on March 27 he would impose the tariffs to retaliate for Japan 's failure to honor a 1986 agreement to end dumping computer semiconductors in world markets at less than cost and to open its home markets to U.S. products . Yeutter , on the NBC program " Today , " said the United States did not want to terminate the agreement and would drop the tariffs once Japan began fulfilling the agreement . He said Japanese negotiators last week told U.S. officials they were honoring the pact , but Yeutter said it would take time to monitor any compliance . Asked how long that would take , he said " We want to see a pattern of compliance , so in a minimum I would say that would take a few weeks . " Yeutter said he did not think there would be much consumer impact by the tariffs on 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese goods because the items selected are also readily available from other countries and manufacturers . He said he did not think Japan would retaliate . " It seems to me it is not in the interests of either country to get in an escalating conflict . The Japanese understand that full well ," Yeutter said . He added Japan might challenge the tariffs in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) , but " that 's more of a paper kind of exercise and I do n't really expect to see any adverse impact on U.S. trade . " Yeutter also said he did not see any way the semiconductor issue could be resolved before or during a Washington visit later this month by Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone . He said he hoped the visit , which is to have trade as a major issue , would be productive but " I do n't see any practical way to resolve this particular dispute before or during his visit . " reuter 
<TEST	16871	trade>
insurance and freight costs for imported goods of 1.45 billion dlrs were included in the February trade deficit of 15.1 billion dlrs reported on Tuesday . The department is required by law to wait 48 hours after the initial trade report to issue a second report on a " customs value " basis , which eliminates the freight and insurance charges from the cost of imports . Private-sector economists emphasized that the Commerce Department was not revising down the deficit by 1.45 billion dlrs but simply presenting the figures on a different basis . A report in the Washington Post caused a stir in the foreign exchanges today because it gave the impression , dealers said , that the underlying trade deficit for February had been revised downward . The Commerce department would like to have the law changed to permit it to report both sets of figures simultaneously . " My feeling is the second one is a better report but there 's legislation that requires us to delay it two days , " said Robert Ortner , Commerce undersecretary for economic affairs . " But this has been going on for a long time and no one pays any attention to the second figure . " The 15.1 billion dlr February trade deficit compared with a revised January deficit of 12.3 billion dlrs . The law requiring a 48-hour delay in publishing the monthly trade figure excluding freight and insurance was passed in 1979 . Reportedly the feeling was the first figure , which includes customs , freight and insurance , allowed a better comparison with other countries that reported their trade balances on the same basis . The second figure , which would always be lower by deducting freight and insurance , presents the deficit in a more favorable light for the Reagan administration . Ortner said he would like to see the law changed to eliminate the 48-hour delay in reporting the two figures . " We 're considering it , " he said , " It 's one of those dinosaur laws and I think it 's time has come . " The second figure , which would always be lower by deducting freight and insurance , presents the deficit in a more favorable light for the Reagan administration . Ortner said he would like to see the law changed to eliminate the 48-hour delay in reporting the two figures . " We 're considering it , " he said , " It 's one of those dinosaur laws and I think its time has come . " Reuter 
<TEST	16903	money-fx>
distancing itself from remarks by the administration 's budget chief , said the Federal Reserve 's current course of monetary policy was appropriate . " The administration feels that the current course of monetary policy is appropriat e , " White House spokesman Marlin Fitwater said . Fitzwater said the administration did not endorse remarks by White House budget chief James Miller , who said he was concerned the Federal Reserve might overreact to the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar by raising interest rates . More 
<TEST	16926	trade>
Reagan imposed on Japanese exports are not only a shot across Japan 's bow but also a sign Reagan will attack unfair trade practices worldwide , U.S. officials said . But Robert Crandall , a trade specialist at Brookings Institution , a think tank , said " a shot across their bow can often result in a shot in our stern . " He said it left the United States open to retaliation . The U.S. officials said the 100 pct tariffs Reagan ordered on 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese goods will also show Congress that a tough pro-trade stand can be taken under existing laws , and no new protectionist legislation is needed . In the past year tough trade action had been taken against the European Community over corn and sorghum , Taiwan over beer and wine , South Korea over counterfeiting of copyrights , patents and trademarkets and Japan on tobacco . White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters the tariffs up from five pct should be seen as a " serious signal " to other nations on the need for fair trade practices . Reagan said he imposed the sanctions on certain computers , television sets and some hand tools because Japan did not honor an agreement to end dumping semiconductors in world markets at less than cost and to open its markets to U.S. products . The tariffs were placed on items which were available from other sources so there would be little effect on the American consumer , Fitzwater said . Reagan has come under heavy pressure to take tougher action especially against Japan to end global unfair trade practices and reverse the growing U.S. trade deficit . The alternative was that if he did not , Congress would . The U.S. trade gap last year was a record 169.8 billion dlrs , and continues to rise , with Japan accounting for about one-third of America 's overall deficit . But there are other two-way deficits with Canada , West Germany , Taiwan and South Korea and Reagan officials said the president is ready to fight them all . Reagan said in announcing the sanctions today that " I regret that these actions are necessary , " but that the health and vitality of the U.S. semiconductor industry was essential to American competitiveness in world markets . " We cannot allow it to be jeopardized by unfair trading practices , " Reagan added in the statement from his California vacation home at Santa Barbara . He said the tariffs would remain in force until Japan abided by the agreement . U.S. officials say the action today will show Congress which is about to write a trade bill he does not like that he already has the tools needed to fight unfair trade . The White House aide said of the tariff action , " it was n't done to appease Congress , but because there was an unfair trade practice . " The aide added , however , " on another plane , it was an example of how the administration uses the trade law to fight unfair practices , an that it is not necessary to make a major overall of our trade laws . " But the analyst , Crandall , said the tariff action was not in the best interests of the United States , and that negotiations should have been pursued to resolve the issue . " It 's very dangerous to go down the retaliatory route , " he said , " because it leads to more retaliation and restrictions in trade . " Crandall said , " the administration is doing this for its political impact across the country , and therefore its impact on Congress . " He said , " I do n't think it makes a lot of sense . " But other analysts said it made little difference whether the tariffs were aimed at U.S. trading partners or Congress , and that the main point was that the trading partners were on notice that retaliation was a weapon Reagan was ready to use . Spokesman Fitzwater said " we do n't want a trade war , " but the imposition of sanctions showed the United States would act when it had evidence that trade pacts were being violated . Crandall said , " the administration is doing this for its political impact across the country , and therefore its impact on Congress . " He said , " I do n't think it makes a lot of sense . " But other analysts said it made little difference whether the tariffs were aimed at U.S. trading partners or Congress , and that the main point was that the trading partners were on notice that retaliation was a weapon Reagan was ready to use . Spokesman Fitzwater said " we do n't want a trade war , " but the imposition of sanctions showed the United States would act when it had evidence that trade pacts were being violated . Reuter 
<TEST	16929	trade>
Yeutter said he was almost sure Japan would not retaliate against tariffs President Reagan slapped on 300 mln dlrs of Japanese electronic goods today . "I 'd say it 's 99 plus pct sure that it ( the tariffs ) will not provoke a retaliation on American products , " Yeutter told Cable News Network . " Japan has far too much at stake in this relationship ( with the United States ) to seriously entertain thoughts of retaliation , " Yeutter said . Earlier today , Reagan imposed 100 pct tariffs on a range of Japanese goods in retaliation for Japan 's alleged violation of a bilateral pact governing semiconductor trade . Yeutter did say that U.S. farm products would be targeted if Tokyo decided to hit back . " If they ( Japan ) were to retaliate , it would probably be on something like American agricultural products , " he said . " But I really think the chances of that happening are between slim and none , " he added . Reuter 
<TEST	16932	trade>
retaliatory action against implementation of U.S. Tariffs on some Japanese electronic goods , the minister of international trade and industry , Hajime Tamura , said in a statement . Japan requested bilateral consultations in accordance with Article 23-1 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) in Washington yesterday . Tamura said there was deep regret over the U.S. Measures , which will impose 100 pct tariffs on about 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese imports of some small computers , colour television sets and power tools . REUTER 
<TEST	21592	money-fx	interest>
28-day securities repurchase agreement , offering banks liquidity aid at a fixed bid rate of 3.80 pct , a central bank spokesman said . Banks must make their bids by 1400 GMT tomorrow and funds allocated will be credited to accounts tomorrow , April 22 . Banks must repurchase securities pledged on May 20 . REUTER 
<TEST	21593	grain	trade>
rice is an example of extreme protectionism , visiting U.S. Agriculture secretary Richard Lyng told a press conference . He told the National Press Club of Japan that because Japan had a large export balance , not just with the U.S. But with other countries , it was inconsistent for it to be 100 pct self-sufficient in one product . Speaking after farm trade talks with Japan agriculture minister Mutsuki Kato , Lyng said the U.S. Had not asked for total liberalisation of the rice market in Japan . Lyng urged Japan to allow some imports of rice . " We want to have some access in the rice market ," he said . He said both he and trade representative Clayton Yeutter were disappointed at the outcome of talks with Japan . He told reporters Japan had rejected the U.S. Proposal to open negotiations on rice at the new round of trade talks at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade . Lyng said he suggested instead bilateral talks with Japan on rice . Kato has said Japan cannot negotiate on its policy of rice self-sufficiency . Asked what the next U.S. Step would be on the rice issue , Lyng said he did not know what Yeutter or the U.S. Rice industry would do . Yeutter has promised to consider again in July or August this year a complaint against Japan 's rice import ban by the U.S. Rice Millers Association if no breakthrough is made in the meantime . U.S. Rice industry officials have indicated they would consider filing another complaint against the Japan rice import ban . REUTER 
<TEST	21597	trade	grain>
said Japanese government officials do not seem to understand that protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Could lead to an explosive situation and protectionist legislation . Speaking to the National Press Club of Japan , Lyng said protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Has increased alarmingly during the last six months . " It is a radically changed situation and is very explosive . We are on the verge of some very harsh mandatory retaliatory laws which would have very serious consequences for other countries , especially Japan ," Lyng told reporters . Lyng 's comments about protectionist trade legislation appeared to be a reference to the so-called Gephardt provision , requiring retaliation against countries which have trade surpluses with the U.S. , Trade analysts said . U.S. House majority leader Thomas Foley , a Washington Democrat , yesterday predicted during a visit here that the Gephardt provision will be approved by the House when trade legislation is taken up later this month . Senior Japanese officials do not seem to perceive the volatility of the situation in the U.S. , Where Congress is increasingly unpredictable , he said . " The purpose of this trip is to emphasise the fact that patience is beginning to be very much frayed in Washington . I cannot emphasise that enough , " Lyng said . In talks with Japanese Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato yesterday , Lyng and Trade representative Clayton Yeutter asked Japan to begin negotiations on its rice policy and end import quotas on beef and citrus . Lyng said he was disappointed Kato rejected the U.S. Request but hoped it would not lead to a protectionist response in Congress , where legislation on rice retaliation has been introduced in both the House and Senate . Lyng said the U.S. Is dependent on Japan as a market for exports because Japan has been the largest buyer of U.S. Farm products since 1964 , especially grains . He said the U.S. Understands Japan , with a limited land area , is concerned about maintaining some level of self-sufficiency in food for national security reasons . But he argued the freeing of farm product imports would not necessarily weaken Japanese agriculture . Lyng pledged the U.S. Will never again embargo shipments of farm products as it did in 1973 . REUTER 
<TEST	21598	trade	money-fx>
should move to a more open economy by gradually removing most government controls on industry and adopting a liberal external trade policy with reduced levels of protection . A confidential " executive summary " of a draft Bank report on the Indian economy was made available to Reuters . It suggests liberalisation as part of a package of reforms to boost exports of Indian goods by making them more competitive . The summary said , " These reforms would result in ( domestic ) prices much more in line with world prices than is true today , and in a greater degree of import competition and export rivalry than the nation has ever seen . " The summary said foreign trade must play a key role in India 's transition towards a more dynamic economy . Liberal imports of capital goods would help modernise the economy and expose Indian producers to foreign competition . Larger exports would provide the foreign exchange for imports . " The main guideline is unambiguously to abandon the present principle of unlimited protection for all indigenously available products and to recognise the role of actual or potential competition from imports as a source of discipline on the prices and costs of public and private sector domestic manufacturers , " the summary said . An Indian official told Reuters the government was discussing the report with the Bank . A final report with some changes was likely to be ready by May , but he declined to give further details . The Bank and industrialised nations will discuss the Bank 's final report at a meeting in Paris on June 22 and 23 to discuss aid for India in the 1987/88 year starting in June . The summary said India 's gross domestic product ( g dp ) grew at an average five pct in Indian fiscal years 1985/86 and 1986/87 , which ended in March . It said investment was being sustained at nearly 25 pct of gdp . Almost 94 pct of the investment was being financed by national savings , mainly from the private sector . India 's trade deficit is officially said to have narrowed to 5.6 billion dlrs in 1986/87 ended March , from a record 6.96 billion dlrs in 1985/86 . The current account deficit fell to 2.4 billion dlrs in 1986/87 from 2.88 billion in 1985/86 . But the summary said the improvement was largely due to lower prices of crude oil , petroleum products and fertilisers which make up the bulk of India 's import bill . India was able to save about 2.6 billion dlrs in foreign exchange in 1986/87 due to lower prices of those products , the summary said . The Bank 's summary said there was little room for complacency in the balance of payments position . It said that despite a lower trade deficit in 1986/87 , Indian foreign exchange reserves fell by 240 mln dlrs . Real export growth would need to average at least 6.1 pct a year in value terms in the coming years to maintain a viable balance of payments , the summary said . It did not explicitly suggest the rupee should be devalued . India " might have to reaffirm the commitment to exporting while undertaking some dramatic changes in general incentives that involve some political costs , " it said . " An example of such a policy would be the adoption of an exchange rate regime that maintained exporters ' profitability , " the summary said . It said such an approach had been successful in countries such as South Korea , Colombia and Turkey . It would maintain the competitiveness of Indian exports and simultaneously reduce import pressures . Earlier this year , the Indian government denied that the World Bank asked it to devalue the Indian rupee to boost exports . REUTER 
<TEST	21601	interest	money-fx>
its one , two and three month treasury certificate rates effective immediately . It said in a telex message the key three month rate was reduced by 0.05 points to 7.25 pct , the two month rate by 0.10 points to 7.20 pct and the one month rate by 0.15 points to 7.15 pct . The Bank last adjusted its short-term treasury certificate rates on April 3 , when all three rates were cut by 0.10 points . It has made regular small reductions in rates after hoisting the three month rate 0.50 points to 7.90 pct and the other rates to eight pct on January 6 ahead of the realignment of the European Monetary System . The National Bank bought more than 7.91 billion francs of foreign currency in the week ended April 13 , a National Bank spokesman said last week . Foreign exchange analysts noted this reflects the current strength of the Belgian franc . REUTER 
<TEST	21604	dlr	money-fx>
market to try to accelerate the dollar 's rise after heavy dollar buying by institutional investors , dealers said . The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars at around 142.10 yen , they said . REUTER 
<TEST	21610	trade	grain>
industrial and agricultural production over the next seven years and to greatly expand trade with other nations , the official North Korean Central News Agency , monitored in Tokyo , reported . Prime Minister Li Gun-mo told the eighth Supreme People 's Assembly in Pyongyang agricultural production will rise 1.4 times in the period of the new seven-year plan , the agency said . " For a more satisfactory solution of the problem of food , clothing and housing for the people , a 15 mln tonne target of grain will be hit ...And 1.5 billion metres of textiles will be produced annually , " he said . Annual output of non-ferrous metals will be lifted to more than 1.7 mln tonnes in the seven year plan , the agency quoted Li as saying . During the previous seven-year plan North Korea achieved annual output of 10 mln tonnes of grain . Chemical fertilizer production hit an annual target of five mln tonnes . He did not provide any other figures . REUTER 
<TEST	21624	grain	wheat>
intervention feed wheat , out of an available 57,300 tonnes , was sold at today 's tender for the home market , the Home Grown Cereals Authority , HGCA , said . Price details were not reported . Reuter 
<TEST	21632	dlr	interest	money-fx>
Angell said the Reagan appointed majority on the board was not at odds with Chairman Paul Volcker on whether interest rates should rise to support the dollar . " I would anticipate very little difference between the chairman 's position on price-level stability and on the view of the dollar in foreign exchange markets and my own , " Angell said in an interview with the New York Times . " And I would also see very little difference in ( Governor ) Manley Johnson 's position and my own , " he added . The newspaper said Angell was speaking in response to inquiries concerning a report by syndicated columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak that Volcker was ready to raise rates to defend the dollar but that he was being thwarted by the four Reagan appointed members on the board . Angell told the newspaper that there was no evidence of disagreement on the board and that " anyone who should suggest " there is one " might be reaching pretty far . " Reuter 
<TEST	21648	acq>
results for the rest of 1987 to improve from the earlier reported first quarter operating loss of 15.4 mln dlrs . Chief executive William James told reporters after the annual meeting that " I would hope that the loss for the year certainly would n't be a high as the loss for the first quarter . In other words we are going to make money from here on in . " Falconbridge last year made a first quarter operating loss of 17.1 mln dlrs and a full-year operating loss of 15.5 mln dlrs . James said currency losses tied to the stronger Canadian dollar resulted for about eight mln dlrs of the first quarter operating loss . Falconbridge records its cash and accounts receivable in U.S. dollars , with the Canadian dollar equivalent decreasing as the U.S. dollar falls . He said the first quarter loss also stemmed from weaker nickel and ferronickel prices and lower production at the company 's Sud bury , Ontario nickel operations and at some Kidd Creek operations . Falconbridge anticipates higher production through the rest of the year and higher average prices this year for precious metals , James added , without elaborating . Falconbridge has no immediate plans for further divestments , James said in reply to reporters ' inquiries . The company sold several mining subsidiaries last year to help pay down debt from its January , 1986 acquisition of Kidd Creek Mines Ltd from Canada Development Corp <CDC.TO> . He said Falconbridge 's debt now totaled about one billion dlrs , down from 1.37 billion dlrs at the time of the Kidd Creek buy . James said he could not assess the impact of Amoco Corp <AN> 's proposed acquisition of Dome Petroleum Ltd <DMP> . Dome 's 23 pct-owned Dome Mines Ltd <DM> owns 21 pct of Falconbridge . Asked by reporters if Falconbridge preferred competing Dome bidder , Calgary , Alberta-based TransCanada PipeLines Ltd to Chicago-based Amoco , James replied , " It makes no difference to me ...whoever takes it over is fine by us . " He told shareholders that Falconbridges ' planned capital expenditures this year would decline to 134 mln dlrs from 160 mln dlrs last year . Reuter 
<TEST	21660	grain	wheat>
estimates of French winter cereal sowings for the 1986/87 campaign barely changed at 6.606 mln hectares compared with its previous forecast of 6.601 mln . This compared with the 6.41 mln ha of winter cereals harvested in the 1985/86 campaign . Winter soft wheat sowings were put at 4.647 mln ha compared with its previous estimate of 4.651 mln and 4.57 mln ha harvested last campaign . Winter barley plantings were forecast at 1.46 mln ha , unchanged from its previous estimate and compared with 1.41 mln harvested last season . The ministry put hard winter wheat sowings at 246,000 ha versus a February 1 estimate of 236,000 and actual area harvested last campaign of 217,000 . Winter rape plantings were forecast at 627,000 ha against a previous estimate of 621,000 and 375,000 rpt 375,000 harvested in 1985/86 . Reuter 
<TEST	21668	interest	money-fx>
year 's price slump , is leaning towards a more creative monetary policy to help spur its economy , banking sources said . " There is a clear emphasis on encouraging the use of money in productive ventures , rather than having it all tied up in interest bearing investments which have no direct productive outlet , " one banker said . Kuwait 's Central Bank yesterday cut one key money market rate and abandoned another which had been used since February 1986 to direct inter-bank borrowing and lending costs . The bank reduced to six pct from 6-1/2 pct the rate at which it will offer funds of one month to one year in the inter-bank market . This , in turn , affected retail rates . The cut , the third this year , followed a major overhaul of interest rate policy last month which Central Bank Governor Sheikh Salem Ab dul-Aziz al-Sabah said was designed to revive the economy . One banker said " There is growing flexibility , crea t ivity , in interest rate policy , amid an awareness of the need to diversify the economy by stimulating the non-oil secto r . " For the first time in nearly three years domestic interest rates are now significantly below those for the U.S. Dollar , a favourite haven for Gulf speculative and investor funds in the past , banking sources said . Despite uncertainties generated by the 6-1/2 year old Iran Iraq war on Kuwait 's northern doorstep , bankers play down the prospect of any significant capital flight . The Kuwaiti dinar , whose value is set by the Central Bank and was fixed today at 0.27095/129 to the dollar , is stronger now than for several years . Fears that the dollar may fall further will prompt second thoughts among Kuwaiti investors prepared to consider switching funds into the U.S. Currency , the sources said . " There is a distinct exchange rate risk ," they added . Bankers said the dollar slump hurt many investors behind the last major capital outflow in 1984 , encouraged then by 18 pct U.S. Interest rates and the start of Iranian attacks on neutral shipping in the Gulf . The Central Bank calculates its dinar exchange rate against a basket of currencies . Bankers do not know the basket 's exact make-up but say it is weighted heavily in favour of the dollar . Some bankers believe any strengthening of the dinar beyond 0.27000 to the dollar might provoke investors into shifting funds into the U.S. Currency . " They may a will the dollar be so cheap again ? " one said . And with dinar interest rates now roughly one pct below those for the dollar , they say the Central Bank faces a delicate balancing role requiring further flexibility . Bankers said the current , expansionary interest rate policy is only part of a broader attempt to encourage local investment and strengthen the backbone of the economy . They estimate the economy , measured in terms of GDP and allowing for inflation , shrank 19 pct in 1986 after an 8.1 pct contraction the previous year . Bankers also noted recent measures to stimulate stock market activity , capped today by sharp cuts in brokerage fees to make it cheaper for investors to trade . REUTER 
<TEST	21672	grain	wheat>
tonnes of Canadian feed wheat for late June/early July shipment at 95.00 dlrs per tonne FOB Vancouver , trade sources said . Reuter 
<TEST	17041	money-fx>
the Tokyo market opened to support the dollar from falling below 140.00 yen , dealers said . The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars to prevent its decline amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency , they said . The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 140.00 yen against 140.70/80 in New York and 141.15 at the close here yesterday . The previous Tokyo low was 140.55 yen set on April 15 . REUTER 
<TEST	17047	money-fx>
Japan has no plans to take new emergency measures to support the dollar , other than foreign exchange intervention . He also told reporters that many major nations yesterday intervened heavily to support the dollar against the yen . Yesterday 's intervention was large in terms of the countries involved and the amounts expended , he said . With the continued fall of the dollar against the yen , 0speculation had arisen in currency markets here that Japan might take new measures to support the U.S. Currency , such as curbing capital outflows . Miyazawa said that yesterday 's news of a 4.3 pct rise in U.S. Gnp in the first quarter had been expected . Although the growth looks robust on the surface , the figures in reality are not that good , he said . He said the ruling Liberal Democratic Party ( LDP ) is expected to come up with a final set of recommendations of ways to stimulate the Japanese economy before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington next week . Commenting on yesterday 's report on economic restructuring by a high-level advisory panel to Nakasone , Miyazawa said it was important to put the panel 's recommendations into effect . REUTER 
<TEST	17051	interest>
credit policy further , bank officials told Reuters . They were responding to rumours in the Japanese bond market that the central bank was planning to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate soon , possibly before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington on April 29 . Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita will be in Osaka , western Japan on April 27 and 28 for the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank , making a rate cut announcement early next week a virtual impossibility , they said . April 29 is a holiday here . REUTER 
<TEST	17052	interest>
it would cut its prime rate to 17.75 pct from 18.25 , effective April 27 . The cut follows a trend toward lower rates started last month and accelerated by Westpac Banking Corp , which yesterday cut its prime to 17.50 pct from 18.25 pct . Westpac 's 17.50 pct is the lowest prevailing rate . REUTER 
<TEST	17054	crude>
with Colombia to export crude oil for the next five years , Colombian mines and energy minister Guillermo Perry said . The link will be inaugurated on May 8 . It was built to allow Ecuador to resume exports of crude oil halted on March 5 by earthquake damage to its Lago Agrio to Balao pipeline , Once that pipeline is repaired , Ecuador will exceed its OPEC quota in order to offset lost income and pay debts contracted with Venezuela and Nigeria since the quake , Ecuador mines and energy minister Javier Espinosa said . The two ministers were speaking at a news conference after signing an agreement for joint oil exploration and exploitation of the jungle border zone between the two nations . Drilling will begin in September . " The agreement to transport Ecuadorean crude oil is not only for this emergency period but for the next five years , with possibility of an extension . Between 20,000 and 50,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) will be pumped along it , " Perry said . Espinosa said Ecuador planned to pump 35 mln barrels through the link in the next five years , at a cost of 75 cents per barrel during the first year . The 43-km link , with a maximum capacity of 50,000 bpd , will run from Lago Agrio , the centre of of Ecuador 's jungle oilfields , to an existing Colombian pipeline that runs to the Pacific port of Tumaco . Espinosa said the 32- km stretch of the link built on the Ecuadorean side cost 10.5 mln dlrs . Perry gave no figures for Colombia 's 11 km segment but said it was " insignificant compared with what we are going to earn . " OPEC member Ecuador was pumping around 250,000 bpd before the quake . Lost exports of 185,000 bpd are costing it 90 mln dlrs per month , Espinosa said . REUTER 
<TEST	21680	grain	corn>
importers will tender on April 29 for two cargoes of U.S. Maize , totalling between 54,000 and 87,000 tonnes for delivery between May 21 and June 25 , a committee spokesman told Reuters . Taiwan has set a calendar 1987 import target of 2.92 mln tonnes compared with imports of 3.05 mln in 1986 . About 80 pct of the imports are expected to come from the U.S. And the rest from South Africa , the spokesman said . REUTER 
<TEST	21686	interest	money-fx>
rise in overnight call money rates to 16-5/8 pct , which a central bank spokesman said was part of government efforts to control money supply growth . The increase came after yesterday 's one-point rise and pushed interbank rates to 19 19-1/2 pct from 18-1/8 19 pct . The M-4 money supply , liquid assets in public hands , the broadest measure of money supply , rose 14.1 pct in the first three months compared with this year 's eight pct target . Money supply growth was 11.4 pct last year . REUTER 
<TEST	21691	trade	money-fx>
effects of the yen 's recent sharp rise on Japan 's economy as growth remains slow , the government 's Economic Planning Agency said in a monthly report submitted to cabinet ministers . EPA officials told reporters the underlying trend of the economy is firm but growth is slow due to sluggish exports . Customs-cleared exports by volume fell 4.9 pct month-on-month in February after a 2.8 pct fall in March . The government must take adequate economic measures to expand domestic demand and stabilise exchange rates in a bid to ensure sustained econonic growth , the report said . The report made a special reference to the yen 's renewed rise and its effect on the economy , the officials said , adding the agency 's judgement of current economic conditions has not changed since last month . The EPA said last month Japan 's economy is beginning to show signs of bottoming out , conditional upon exchange rates . The dollar fell below 139 yen in early trading today a post-war low . REUTER 
<TEST	21702	crude	acq>
performance in all business segments in the first quarter showed improvement over last year and it expects " significantly enhanced performanc e " in 1987 . Shell Canada reported first quarter earnings of 103 mln dlrs , or 90 cts per share , up from 40 mln dlrs , or 32 cts per share . Oil products earnings were 38 mln dlrs , up 19 mln dlrs from last year , when margins were impaired by lower oil prices . Shell Canada said chemical earnings were 17 mln dlrs in the quarter , compared with a loss of five mln dlrs in 1986 . The styrene business saw significant improvement , stemming from an increase in international demand . Resources earnings increased by six mln dlrs to 46 mln dlrs . Lower prices for all commodities were offset by the removal of the Petroleum and Gas Revenue Tax , the impact of lower royalty rates and higher volumes . Gross production of crude oil and natural gas liquids increased seven pct from the first quarter of last year to 11,200 cubic meters a day , Shell said . Shell Canada also said natural gas sales volumes of 19.6 mln cubic meters a day was up five pct from last year . Sulphur sales of 4,143 tonnes a day were up 70 pct . The company also recorded benefits of 10 mln dlrs from the acquisition of Shell Explorer Ltd. Interest expense for the quarter was lower than in the previous year , due to the early retirement of a 200 mln U.S. dlr debenture and the impact of a stronger Canadian dollar on U.S. dollar-denominated debt . Reuter 
<TEST	21708	trade>
economy will likely slow to 2.2 pct this year and 1.9 pct in 1988 after reaching 2.8 pct last year , according to a study by a group at Basle University 's Institute of Applied Economics . It blamed the expected slowdown partly on a disappointing outlook for exports caused by the weaker dollar . Exports would likely grow by 2.8 pct this year and by 3.0 pct in 1988 , after 3.0 pct in 1986 , the group predicted . Final domestic demand will also fall back , to a likely 3.0 pct this year and 2.3 pct next , after 4.1 pct in 1986 . However , the domestic picture will likely be mixed . The study said investment in plant and equipment would continue to be the main motor for the growth in domestic demand , although it was unlikely to grow as fast as last year 's 7.4 pct , rising this year by 4.5 pct and by 2.8 pct in 1988 . While the growth in private consumption is expected to fall back to 2.5 pct this year and 2.1 pct in 1988 from last year 's 3.1 pct , public consumption spending will likely grow by 1.9 pct in 1987 and 2.0 pct next year , after 1.5 pct in 1986 . Consumer prices were seen rising by 1.7 pct this year and 2.4 pct in 1988 , after just 0.8 pct in 1986 . Unemployment should fall back to 0.7 pct from last year 's 0.8 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	21715	grain	corn>
Argentina compensation for its loss of maize and sorghum exports to Spain following Spain 's accession to the EC , EC sources said . They said the offer will be made next week in Geneva , headquarters of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) , and will also involve products other than cereals . They gave no further details . Argentine exports of sorghum to Spain fell to zero last year from 300,000 tonnes in 1985 , while maize sales fell to 15,000 tonnes from 994,000 , official EC statistics show . The sources noted that an agreement between the EC and the U.S. guarantees special access to the Spanish market for two mln tonnes of non-EC maize and 300,000 tonnes of sorghum each year for the next four years . But they said various details of this accord will tend to inhibit imports from Argentina . These include a provision for reduction of the amounts if Spain imports cereals substitutes , and the EC 's plan to import the special maize and sorghum on a regular monthly basis . Argentina tends to have exportable quantities only three or four times a year . Reuter 
<TEST	21729	trade>
initiatives need to be implemented to shift resources from consumption to production in the Zimbabwe economy , says the Zimbabwe Banking Corporation ( ZBC ) in its quarterly economic review . The state owned banking group says although Zimbabwe 's balance of payments improved significantly last year the underlying position deteriorated . Last year 's improved trade surplus was partly the result of sales of stockpiled gold and continued import restraint . It says debt service charges are projected to exceed 35 pct of exports in 1987 and warns against squeezing imports further . ZBC says mining industry import quotas for the first six months of 1987 have been halved and those for manufacturing industry cut by a third . It contrasts the performance of manufacturing industry in 1967 to 1974 , with that since independence in 1980 . Industrial production almost doubled between 1967 and 1974 , when foreign currency allocations almost trebled in real terms . Since 1980 , import allocations have been cut 45 pct and the Zimbabwe dollar has depreciated by more than 60 pct . As a result the bank says the external purchasing power of foreign currency allocations is currently only 20 pct of its 1980 levels . REUTER 
<TEST	21733	acq	crude>
the takeover of an unnamed company owned by Frenchman Hubert Perrodo in exchange for Perrodo taking a 51 pct stake in Petranol . It said in a statement the assets of the company to be acquired included a "substantial interest " in an unspecified oil field in Torrance , California , and five mln dlrs in cash . Funding commitments for Petranol , both in respect of the Californian oil field and Petranol 's existing U.S. A ssets , would be included in the agreement . Petranol said the deal would enhance its presence in the U.S. , Increase its capital and secure the availability of development cash . Reuter 
<TEST	21749	money-fx	trade>
the Group of Seven leading industrial nations is fully committed to halting a further decline in the dollar . " Let me emphasize that all seven major industrial nations remain fully committed to strengthening policy coordination , promoting growth and cooperating to foster stability of exchange rates , " he told the American Enterprise Institute . " We all believe a further decline of the dollar could be counter productive to our efforts ( to promote growth ) ," he said . Baker also said that after meeting Japanese special envy Shintaro Abe , " it 's clear that Japan intends to take strong steps to stimulate its economy to meet its committments under the Louvre Accord . " Baker said in the past two years he has worked to promote greater coordination of economic policies and important progress has been made . " S ubstantial exchange rate adjustments have also been accomplished over the past two years so that today we are better positioned to promote growth and reduce external imbalances , " he said . Baker pointed out that in February the seven agreed to foster stable exchange rates and those commitments were renewed recently . In a speech largely devoted to discussing trade and competitiveness , Baker again warned of the dangers of protectionist trade legislation , saying it would harm the U.S. standard of living . Baker stressed adminstration trade policy sought to remove foreign barriers to trade and via forthcoming GATT talks will focus on agriculture , services and intellectual property . The Treasury Secretary said that as well as trade issues he had to focus on macroeconomic issues as well which encompass the trade picture . " The world economy today is really one constantly flowing circle of capital and goods . Trade accounts catch and measure that flow at only one spot on the circle , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	21768	ship	grain	corn>
Union was rejected and forced to be unloaded at a Chicago export elevator earlier this week after it failed to make grade , with the British vessel Broompark now being reloaded , an elevator spokesman said . The first attempt to load the ship failed when the percentage of broken kernels proved to be higher than contract specifications , he said . The Soviets traditionally refuse to take sub-grade grain at a price discount , as is the practice with many other importing nations , he added . The official estimated the reloading of the vessel with about 700,000 tonnes of corn may be completed by Tuesday , April 28 . Reuter 
<TEST	21770	interest	money-fx>
reducing restrictions on the use of money market rates as reference rates for loans . The Bank would start quoting money market rates referred to as HELIBOR ( Helsinki Interbank Offered Rate ) . Banks may henceforth use these as reference rates in their lending , it said . From May 1 the banks would be allowed , without special central bank approval , to use as a reference rate not only its base rate but also other Bank of Finland rates or the official money market rate used in market transactions . A derivative of these could also be used , the statement said . But housing loans would be excepted and their lending rate would , as formerly , be linked directly or indirectly to the Bank of Finland 's base rate . The new guidelines involve mainly two changes . Money market rates in future would be used as reference rates for loans with a maturity of over five years and the introduction of a new reference rate would no longer require central bank approval . The decision was made as a continuation of the central bank 's process of liberalisation , it said . REUTER 
<TEST	21790	grain	wheat>
announced it accepted three bids from two exporters for export bonuses to cover sales of 54,000 tonnes of durum wheat to Algeria . USDA said the bonuses awarded were 42.45 dlrs per tonne , to be paid in the form of commodities from CCC inventory . The bonus awards were made to Cam USA Inc ( 36,000 tonnes ) and Corprostate Inc ( 18,000 tonnes ) . Shipment is scheduled for June 1- 30 , 1987 . An additional 64,000 tonnes of durum wheat are still available to Algeria under the export enhancement program . Reuter 
<TEST	21793	trade>
results achieved in the first three months of the year were unsatisfactory , the official news agency Tass said . Soviet industrial production from January to March grew by 2.5 per cent compared with the same period last year , but fell short of its target by 0.8 percent , official statistics showed . " The Council of Ministers ( government ) emphasised that the results did not meet the Communist Party 's exacting demands for the radical reconstruction of the economy ," Tass said . " The first quarter economic results were deemed unsatisfactory . " The government said poor economic results last January , when industrial production was 0.1 lower than in January 1986 , had been overcome to a considerable extent in March , but the negative effects had not been completely eliminated . It singled out failings in the engineering , chemical and timber industries , as well as light industry . Growth in the machine-building sector , a priority in Kremlin plans for economic renewal , also fell short of target by 4.2 per cent , with below-level output in nearly all branches at a cost of 723 million roubles ( 1.08 billion dollars ) in undelivered products . The sales volume of consumer goods fell 2.7 per cent short of planned growth , with a resulting decline in income to the state , the figures showed . Foreign trade turnover totalled 27.5 billion roubles ( 41.25 billion dollars ) , or 4.8 billion roubles ( 7.2 billion dollars ) less than in the same period last year . The power industry , however , performed well . Output of oil , electricity , gas and coal were all above plan . Reuter 
<TEST	21795	interest>
strong economic growth , falling interest rates and firm Sterling , Barclays Bank Plc chairman-elect John Quinton said . " We should see a reasonable decline in interest rates in the next few months , but not a great one and not a rapid one , " Quinton told a press luncheon . He said that whereas the British economy is growing at about three pct , he expects only " minor " growth for the western industrialized world as a whole . But , unless there is a major move toward protectionism , there should be no need to worry about a recession in the next two or three years . Quinton said much will depend on the resolution of trade disputed between the United States and Japan . He said Tokyo , in resisting the appreciation of the yen , had been " holding back the laws of economics . " But if the dollar has to fall further to reduce Japan 's trade surplus , he said he hoped the fall would be slow rather than rapid . Quinton said it will be difficult for the City of London to stave off the creation of a powerful securities industry regulatory body along the lines of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the U.S. , especially if there are more insider trading scandals and if the Labour Party wins the next U.K. election . Reuter 
<TEST	21802	grain	wheat>
seeking comments on common provisions of the 1988 wheat , feedgrains , cotton and rice programs . It said many program provisions are common to all the commodity programs and decisions made in regard to one will likely apply to other program crops . It asked for specific comments on the percentage reduction for acreage limitation requirements under the wheat program , the loan and purchase level , and whether a marketing loan , the inventory reduction program and related provisions should be implemented . The percentage acreage reduction of between 20 and 30 pct must be announced no later than June 1 , 1987 for wheat , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	21806	grain	corn>
narrowed by three cents the price differential between the Louisiana Gulf price of corn and posted country prices pegged to the gulf price , USDA officials said . The change , effective April 27 , means posted county prices will be three cents higher in the region , Robert Sindt , assistant deputy administrator of USDA 's Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service , said . Trade sources said USDA adjusted the differentials because gulf prices had shown some weakness in recent days compared with the rest of the country . Sindt said Louisiana Gulf corn price differentials that had been between four and eight cents would , effective Monday , range between one and five cents . Trade sources said cash bids at the Louisiana Gulf have been between three and 4.5 cents weaker than in the rest of the country in recent days , and that USDA 's move would strengthen the front end of the corn market . Reuter 
<TEST	21813	crude	trade>
earthquake last month , will contract an estimated four pct in 1987 and its crude oil output will drop by 42 pct , the government 's national development council ( Co nade ) said . A Conade report , dated April 21 and obtained , said that the country 's gross domestic product ( g dp ) would fall by an estimated four pct compared to 1.5 pct growth last year . Conade functions as the country 's main planning institution . Crude output will fall to 61.2 mln barrels in 1987 from 105.6 mln in 1986 , Conade said . It forecast exports of 22.9 mln of crude and derivatives against 63.3 mln last year . The March five earthquake killed up to 1,000 people and caused an estimated one billion dlrs in damage . It paralyzed Ecuador 's crude output because it ruptured the country 's main pipeline from Lago Agrio , at the heart of jungle oilfields , to the Pacific Ocean port of Balao . It will take until at least end-July to repair the line and return output to normal levels , oil officials said . Ecuador output was about 250,000 barrels per day before the tremor . Conade forecast total 1987 exports of 1.77 billion dlrs , 572 mln dlrs of which would be oil and derivatives . Imports were forecast at 1.70 billion dlrs . Total 1986 exports were 2.18 billion dlrs , of which 979 mln dlrs were crude and derivatives , with total imports 1.66 billion dlrs . Conade predicted that payments on Ecuador 's 8.16 billion dlrs foreign debt will be limited to 947 mln dlrs this year against 1.489 billion dlrs last year . Conade 's projected ceiling on payments is not legally binding . The current account balance of payments deficit was seen at 934 mln dlrs in 1987 . It was 696 mln dlrs in 1986 . Reuter 
<TEST	21820	trade	grain	wheat>
trading nations have for the first time made a concerted commitment to review the whole distorted structure of world farm trade , Canadian Trade Minister Patricia Carney said . " We think we can get some movement on this ," she told reporters at a briefing following informal talks with the U.S. , Japanese and European Community ( EC ) trade ministers here . Canada , strongly supported by Australia , has championed the cause of both developed and developing nations which have seen their farm trade suffer largely due to a farm subsidy war between the United States and the EC . Japan "s protected agricultural markets have also attracted criticism. The issue is of extreme importance to many indebted , developing nations which often rely totally on one or two farm sector exports to sustain their economies but which cannot compete with the subsidised U.S. And EC products . " Canada can afford so many billions of dollars ( to do so ) , but many countries cannot , " said Carney . She said the EC had changed its previous unhelpful attitude and had raised proposals similar to those of Canada under which to discuss the issue . Talks will now continue at the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) , which meets next month , and at the series of discussions on a new world trading framework , begun at Punta del Este , Uruguay , last year . Carney said Japan had also agreed to take a positive role in the farm talks , and that the United States was willing to see short-term progress , as long as long-term solutions were not affected . Canada "s five point programme demands that farm product prices must reflect open world market prices , that any support for farmers incomes should not be linked to production incentives , that there should be no new farm subsidies , no new farm import barriers , and that any decisions should be implemented collecti vely . The farm trade problem was almost completely ignored by the industrialised world until Canada raised it last year at the Tokyo summit of seven leading industrial powers . The distortions created by subsidies and protectionism have created some absurd situations . For example , to protect its farmers the Japanese government buys Canadian wheat and sells it at 10 times the purchase price to Japanese consumers . " So we end up borrowing in the Japanese ( financial ) market to help pay subsidies to keep our farmers while they make a profit on our wheat to help pay the price support for their farmers , " said Carney . The problem causes pain for many nations and increases the already dangerously high debts that they owe mainly to U.S. , Japanese and EC banks . REUTER 
<TEST	21822	money-fx	interest>
President Gerald Corrigan opposed a further fall in the value of the dollar but refused to say whether U.S. Interest rates would be raised to protect the currency . " A further decline in the dollar or appreciation of the yen at this juncture I would regard as counterproductive , " he told a news conference . His comments echoed those made last week by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker , who also warned against a further dollar fall . The U.S. Currency plunged to a post-war low below 140 yen last week , despite dollar-buying by a number of central banks . Currency speculators and investors are convinced that a further dollar fall is needed to help reduce the huge U.S. Trade deficit , dealers said . The only thing likely to help the dollar is seen as a rise in U.S. Interest rates . Corrigan refused to say whether the U.S. Was ready to risk damaging its economic recovery by raising interest rates . The dollar "s sharp drop this month has also raised questions about the usefulness of recent meetings of the Group of Seven . But Corrigan said " They have played a constructive role in so far as the broad objective of facilitating a higher degree of economic policy coordination . " REUTER 
<TEST	21824	trade	money-fx>
weekend meeting with a frank confession that their governments are losing credibility in world financial markets and will not regain it until they back their promises over trade and currencies with action . " Until today we have anounced policies , but when it came to action required it was done in a way that satisfied nobody , " Japanese Trade Minister Hajime Tamura told a news conference . " From now on , if a government comes up with a certain policy , it must be followed by action , " he said following two days of informal talks with the trade ministers of the United States , the European Community and Canada in central Japan . Last week , the dollar fell to a new record low below 140 yen , despite statements from the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) leading industrial powers that currencies should be stabilised to underpin world trade . " We need credibility to gain confidence . When we have confidence , then we can have an impact , " said Tamura . His colleagues agreed that when major trade nations fought over trade issues while calling for each other to honour free trade rules in general , it was not a sight which inspired confidence in the markets . " The time has come now to act in step with the talk . If you belong to a club , you have to act in concord with the rules , if you want to be credible , " said EC external trade chief Willy de Clercq . Canadian Trade Minister Patricia Carney also agreed " We are meeting in a time of great trade tension . What the world needs to see is that we have the political will to deal with these problems we face . " She said that next month "s meeting of the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development and the meeting of leaders of the G-7 nations in Venice in the summer would be a forum to show this will existed . U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter reminded the news conference that the results of such high level meetings could lead to action which would only have an effect on smoothing out world trade imbalances perhaps years later . " The media typically has a tendency to evaluate meetings like this in terms of tangible results . That is not the way it should be pursued , " he said . " What is achieved in an intangible way almost always exceeds what is achieved in a tangible way , " he said . Progress in personal contacts and understanding each others " positions and policies was just as important toward reducing trade tensions , he said . Tamura read out an agreed summary of the joint talks Currency stability was now essential , but currency movements alone would not correct a U.S. Trade deficit with Japan which hit 58 billion dlrs last year , an 18 billion dlr EC deficit with Japan in 1986 , and a Japanese global trade surplus of almost 90 billion , he said . Trade retaliation , protectionism , and forcible export restraints which lead to a shrinkage in world trade flows were most dange rous , he said . The imbalances can only be solved by coordinated policies over a whole range of fis cal , monetary , trade and industrial measures , and in line with a body of internationally agreed rules , he said . In this regard , the policing role of the Geneva-based General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade world trade body must be strengthened , he said . The ministers reconfirmed their individual promises to solve the problem . The United States will try to reduce its large budget deficit and restore competitiveness within its industries . Japan will introduce early and effective measures to expand its domestic growth and rely less on exports . The EC must continue efforts for balanced growth and reduced unemployment . All felt satisfied at the new progress in the Canadian economy . REUTER 
<TEST	21826	money-fx	interest>
mainly steady at yesterday "s higher levels in a market which saw little activity due to the European weekend , dealers said . They said banks in the kingdom offered two and three month deposits 1/16 of a percentage point lower , but there were few takers . Rates for short-dated and other fixed period funds were little changed following their sharp rise on Saturday brought on by higher eurodollar deposit rates . Spot-next and one-week deposits were relatively unchanged at 6-3/4 , 1/2 pct . One-month deposits were steady at 6-3/4 , 1/2 pct while three-month funds eased to 6-7/8 , 5/8 pct from 6-15/16 , 11/1 6. Six-month deposits also declined marginally to 7-5/16 , 7-1/8 pct from quotes of 7-3/8 , 1/8 at the close of trade on Saturday . The spot riyal was steady at 3.7499/7504 to the dollar . REUTER 
<TEST	21827	trade	money-fx>
Seven ( G-7 ) countries will meet next week to decide an agenda for the bod y "s June summit scheduled to be held in Venice , Japanese officials said . The meeting will provide senior government officials with their first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of the dollar , although the main focus of the gathering is longer term , they said . Deputy Finance Ministers , including Japanese Vice-Finance Minister Toyoo Gyohten , will attend . The meeting will be held in Italy , they said , but gave no other details . The leaders of the G-7 , the United States , Britain , Canada , France , Italy , Japan and West Germany , are expected to discuss ways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice . The hope is that increased coordination will help reduce the huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currency markets . But economists say the strategy has so far not worked . Japanese officials admitted there is little more they can do on their own to stem the dollar decline , which last week saw the currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen . The officials said they expected sentiment against the dollar to change soon , once the U.S. Trade deficit starts to fall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink . " We have already seen some signs of improvement ( in the trade pictur e ) , but the market does not appreciate it yet , " one said . Last week "s passage of the Japanese government budget by parliament "s Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to take additional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boost imports , the officials said . REUTER 
<TEST	21859	trade>
deficit narrowed to 3.03 mln U.S. Dlrs in November from 8.3 mln in October and 22.63 mln in November 1985 , Central Bank officials said . The current account deficit increased to 28.68 mln dlrs in November against 10.69 mln in October and 55.19 mln in November 1985 . The trade deficit rose to 88 mln dlrs from 36.36 mln in October and 86.2 mln in November 1985 . REUTER 
<TEST	21862	money-fx	interest>
told a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that he does not think the dollar is in a freefall . He said concerted intervention is only a supplementary measure to moderate volatility in exchange rates and repeated that policy coordination among major industrial nations is necessary . " We cannot expect currency stability only through coordinated market intervention , " he said . Miyazawa also told the committee the U.S. Has not called on Japan to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate . Miyazawa said the government is not considering investing in U.S. Government bonds to help stabilize exchange rates . This matter has to be dealt with carefully because it involves the public 's money and exchange rates are moving widely , he added . The ministry will consider where to invest its funds when exchange rates become stable , he said . Asked if Japan is considering a request to the U.S. For it to raise its discount rate to stabilize exchange rates , Miyazawa said the U.S. Has not been able to take action now because it has to maintain its economic growth . REUTER 
<TEST	21865	trade>
surpluses should narrow sharply in 1987 but they will take a long time to get back to normal levels , the Bundesbank said in its 1986 yearly report . The procedure would be slow as an abrupt turnaround in external factors such as oil prices and exchange rates was not expected . It did not specify what levels it considered normal . West Germany posted a record trade surplus of 124 billion marks in 1986 , after 86 billion in 1985 and its current account surplus widened to 76.50 billion from 44.6 billion . Signs imports would continue to rise , a factor already noted at the start of 1986 , while exports rose only slightly , would lead to a smaller trade surplus , the Bundesbank said . In real terms , West German imports rose 5.7 pct in 1986 while exports only increased by 0.8 pct . Germany 's current account surplus widened to a provisional 6.6 billion in February from 4.8 billion in January but was down from 6.85 billion posted in February 1986 . The trade surplus in February widened to a provisional 10.4 billion marks from 7.2 billion in January and was still above the 6.84 billion reached in the same month the year before . REUTER 
<TEST	21866	money-fx	interest>
Yasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that the central bank has no monetary measures other than intervention planned to stabilize currency rates . He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut in its 2.5 pct discount rate . Mieno said the central bank is determined to restore currency stability through intervention by the major industrial nations as recent exchange rate volatility stems from speculation . Economic fundamentals have not changed , he added . REUTER 
<TEST	21888	money-fx	interest>
told a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that he does not think the dollar is in a freefall . He said concerted intervention is only a supplementary measure to moderate volatility in exchange rates and repeated that policy coordination among major industrial nations is necessary . " We cannot expect currency stability only through coordinated market intervention , " he said . Miyazawa also told the committee the U.S. Has not called on Japan to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate . Miyazawa said the government is not considering investing in U.S. Government bonds to help stabilize exchange rates . This matter has to be dealt with carefully because it involves the public 's money and exchange rates are moving widely , he added . The ministry will consider where to invest its funds when exchange rates become stable , he said . Asked if Japan is considering a request to the U.S. For it to raise its discount rate to stabilize exchange rates , Miyazawa said the U.S. Has not been able to take action now because it has to maintain its economic growth . REUTER 
<TEST	21889	money-fx	interest>
Yasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that the central bank has no monetary measures other than intervention planned to stabilize currency rates . He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut in its 2.5 pct discount rate . Mieno said the central bank is determined to restore currency stability through intervention by the major industrial nations as recent exchange rate volatility stems from speculation . Economic fundamentals have not changed , he added . REUTER 
<TEST	21890	money-fx	interest>
President Gerald Corrigan opposed a further fall in the value of the dollar but refused to say whether U.S. interest rates would be raised to protect the currency . " A further decline in the dollar or appreciation of the yen at this juncture I would regard as counterproductive , " he told a news conference . His comments echoed those made last week by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker , who also warned against a further dollar fall . Currency speculators and investors are convinced that a further dollar fall is needed to help reduce the huge U.S. trade deficit , dealers said , adding the only thing likely to help the dollar is seen as a rise in U.S. Interest rates . Corrigan refused to say whether the U.S. was ready to risk damaging its economic recovery by raising interest rates . The dollar 's sharp drop this month has also raised questions about the usefulness of recent meetings of the Group of Seven . But Corrigan said " They have played a constructive role in so far as the broad objective of facilitating a higher degree of economic policy coordination . " Reuter 
<TEST	21905	trade	money-fx>
Seven ( G-7 ) countries will meet next week to decide an agenda for the body 's June summit scheduled to be held in Venice , Japanese officials said . The meeting will provide senior government officials with their first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of the dollar , although the main focus of the gathering is longer term , they said . Deputy Finance Ministers , including Japanese Vice-Finance Minister Toyoo Gyohten , will attend . The meeting will be held in Italy , they said , but gave no other details . The leaders of the G-7 , the United States , Britain , Canada , France , Italy , Japan and West Germany , are expected to discuss ways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice . The hope is that increased coordination will help reduce the huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currency markets . But economists say the strategy has so far not worked . Japanese officials admitted there is little more they can do on their own to stem the dollar decline , which last week saw the currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen . The officials said they expected sentiment against the dollar to change soon , once the U.S. Trade deficit starts to fall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink . " We have already seen some signs of improvement ( in the trade pictur e ) , but the market does not appreciate it yet , " one said . Last week 's passage of the Japanese government budget by parliament 's Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to take additional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boost imports , the officials said . Reuter 
<TEST	21918	money-fx	trade>
cancelled a trip to Australia because of pressing business at home , including the visit this week by Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone , a Treasury spokesman said . The spokesman , who asked not to be identified , said " I would not draw any conclusion from the cancellation ...I would just say it 's the press of business . " But he added that the visit by the Japanese leader was " part of the press of business . " The spokesman denied the cancellation was linked to the current turmoil in the financial markets . Nakasone 's visit is expected to be crucial for the currency markets . Unless the Japanese prime minister brings with him measures to stimulate the Japanese economy by fiscal expansion or lower interest rates , the visit is likely to be considered by currency markets as an outright failure . In addition , it is thought highly unlikely that Nakasone and Reagan will agree on the removal of U.S. trade sanctions imposed earlier this month on certain electronic goods . But the participation in the talks by Baker , the administration 's top policy maker on international economic affairs , suggests that hard bargaining between the two sides may be in prospect . Asked if the trip by Baker , who was to have left April 30 and returned May 6 , had been dropped in the last couple of days , the Treasury spokesman replied " I would think so . " He described the trip as " purely ceremonial . " Both Japan and the United States have a lot to lose from an unsuccessful outcome to the this week 's talks . Tokyo and Washington are aware that nervous currency markets stand ready to bail out of dollars and buy yen , which economists fear could send world interest rates soaring and even lead to global recession . Baker has been the driving force behind the administration 's efforts to coordinate international economic policies and reduce global trade imbalances . Reuter 
<TEST	21929	trade	money-fx>
weekend meeting with a frank confession that their governments are losing credibility in world financial markets and will not regain it until they back their promises over trade and currencies with action . " Until today we have anounced policies , but when it came to action required it was done in a way that satisfied nobody , " Japanese Trade Minister Hajime Tamura told a news conference . " From now on , if a government comes up with a certain policy , it must be followed by action , " he said following two days of informal talks with the trade ministers of the United States , the European Community and Canada in central Japan . Last week , the dollar fell to a new record low below 140 yen , despite statements from the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) leading industrial powers that currencies should be stabilised to underpin world trade . " We need credibility to gain confidence . When we have confidence , then we can have an impact , " said Tamura . His colleagues agreed that when major trade nations fought over trade issues while calling for each other to honour free trade rules in general , it was not a sight which inspired confidence in the markets . " The time has come now to act in step with the talk . If you belong to a club , you have to act in concord with the rules , if you want to be credible , " said EC external trade chief Willy de Clercq . Pat Carney of Canada said " We are meeting in a time of great trade tension . What the world needs to see is that we have the political will to deal with these problems we face . " She said that next month 's meeting of the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development and the meeting of leaders of the G-7 nations in Venice in the summer would be a forum to show this will existed . U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter reminded the news conference that the results of such high level meetings could lead to action which would only have an effect on smoothing out world trade imbalances perhaps years later . " The media typically has a tendency to evaluate meetings like this in terms of tangible results . That is not the way it should be pursued , " he said . " What is achieved in an intangible way almost always exceeds what is achieved in a tangible way , " he said . Progress in personal contacts and understanding each others ' positions and policies was just as important toward reducing trade tensions , he said . Tamura read out an agreed summary of the joint talks Currency stability was now essential , but currency movements alone would not correct a U.S. trade deficit with Japan which hit 58 billion dlrs last year , an 18 billion dlr EC deficit with Japan in 1986 , and a Japanese global trade surplus of almost 90 billion , he said . Trade retaliation , protectionism , and forcible export restraints which lead to a shrinkage in world trade flows were most dange rous , he said . The imbalances can only be solved by coordinated policies over a whole range of fis cal , monetary , trade and industrial measures , and in line with a body of internationally agreed rules , he said . In this regard , the policing role of the Geneva-based General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade world trade body must be strengthened , he said . The ministers reconfirmed their individual promises to solve the problem . The United States will try to reduce its large budget deficit and restore competitiveness within its industries . Japan will introduce early and effective measures to expand its domestic growth and rely less on exports . The EC must continue efforts for balanced growth and reduced unemployment . All felt satisfied at the new progress in the Canadian economy . Reuter 
<TEST	21934	trade	grain	wheat	corn>
2.6 billion dlrs of U.S. Goods in line with its new policy of seeking to limiting its trade surplus to ease trade friction with Washington . The government said this would help freeze this year 's trade surplus with the United States at the 1986 level . " The surplus , which rose to 7.4 billion dollars last year from 4.3 billion in 1985 , was projected to top 10 billion this year but the government has taken steps to constrain it to the seven billion dollar level , " one Trade Ministry official told Reuters . A government statement said the 2.6 billion dlrs was in addition to about two billion dlrs of purchases made last month by a South Korean trade mission to the United States . The announcement follows a visit here this week by U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige , who said that if South Korea wanted to avoid protectionist retaliation it should not falter in its policies to open its market and cut its surplus . The statement said the government , state agencies and other public institutions would buy 480 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Cars , computers , helicopters , ambulances , motorcycles , medical and laboratory equipment and other products . " This amounts includes 89 mln dlrs worth of purchases which were not originally reflected in their budgets , " it added . The list includes 1.13 billion dlrs of capital goods , 700 mln of farm products , 50 mln of aluminium , zinc , polyethylene and other raw materials , and 250 mln of steel , electronics and shipbuilding parts which would be shifted from other nations . Agriculture Ministry officials said South Korea had already bought 310 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Wheat , raw cotton , corn and soybeans . This meant the country would buy from the United States nearly all of the 1.27 billion dlrs of its planned imports of such commodities this year , they said . The government will also take steps to reduce tariffs , accelerate the opening of its markets , voluntarily restrain exports and cut export financing , the statement said . South Korea will also reorganise the country 's 3,600 trade agents to deliver better after-sales services for imported products and hold a trade show in November for U.S. Products . Reuter 
<TEST	21942	dlr	money-fx>
Fitzwater declined to comment on the continuing slide of the dollar against the Japanese yen , but said Treasury Secretary James Baker was watching developments . " Jim Baker is monitoring that at the Treasury Department , but at this point we do n't have any comment to make on the dollar , " Fitzwater told reporters . He was asked at a briefing whether the White House was concerned about the continuing decline in the dollar 's value . Reuter 
<TEST	21944	money-fx	trade>
that it was axiomatic that despite market intervention , a country 's currency will eventually fall to an exchange rate which balances its international trade and payments accounts . John Medlin , president and chief executive officer for the First Wachovia Corp , said that "substantial and rapid currency devaluations usually are followed in time by surging price inflation , spiralling interest rates and painful economic austerity . " Speaking to a banking trade group , he also said the peak of debt writeoff has not yet been reached . Medlin told the Bankers Association for Foreign Trade that ultimately " our nation 's budget and trade deficits will be balanced either through voluntary restraints in spending and consumption or through forced austerity imposed by a dispassionate and unmerciful international market place . " He said the continuing weakness of the dollar and the recent increase in inflation and interest rates " provide early warning that the classic laws of international economics still are in effect . " He also told the association that trying to reduce the trade deficit by erecting protectionist barriers to imports would not give lasting relief . " However , the imposition and enforcement of fair trade rules could help improve imbalances with nations which practice protectionism and deception on us . " Medlin noted that the U.S. economy was likely to continue " at best being a sluggish mixture of depressed segments and growth areas . " But he said that the business cycle was still alive and that the next downturn " could be deeper and harder to reverse than the last one . " Reuter 
<TEST	21945	grain	acq>
and grain traders , Kurt A. Becher GmbH and Co KG , said ConAgra Inc of the U.S. Was taking it over , effective June 1 . Becher said ConAgra , which already owns 50 pct of the trade house , would take over the remaining 50 pct from the Becher family . Further details were not immediately available . ConAgra , based in Omaha , Nebraska , is a foodstuff company and has access to world markets through its agricultural trade subsidiary , ConAgra International . Reuter 
<TEST	21947	dlr	money-fx	interest>
markets for the U.S. to take overt action to stabilize the dollar even though doubts linger that it has fallen far enough to help redress world trade imbalances , economists and dealers said . Some experts believe that a half-point increase in the U.S. discount rate , preferably in conjunction with rate cuts in Tokyo and Bonn , would be enough to discourage sellers . But many fear that more drastic action , such as a U.S. issue of yen-denominated Treasury bonds , may be needed . Despite official warnings about the dangers of a further dollar decline and concerted central bank intervention , the dollar extended its recent sharp depreciation , touching a 40-year low of 137.25 yen in Tokyo earlier today after closing here on Friday at 139.30/ 40 . The impact on other financial markets was devastating . In Tokyo , the stock market suffered its largest single day decline in London , gold bullion prices rose to four-year highs and in the U.S. , long Treasury bond yields surged above 8.80 pct and the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 40 points in hectic early trading . " The problem now is linkage . This is not just a currency problem . It is affecting all the markets , " said one senior trader at a major U.S. bank . Up until September of last year , international efforts to redress world trade imbalances appeared to working like a dream the dollar was falling in an orderly manner , world interest rates were tumbling and inflation was kept in check . In recent months , however , this strategy has begun to show signs of severe stress , with the U.S. imposition of punitive tariffs on Japan threatening to unravel this spirit of cooperating and condemn the world to a damaging trade war . " The markets fear that we have built up a momentum that is really difficult to stop . A U.S. rate hike has become an inevitability , " one currency dealer said . " At this point , nothing short of a Fed discount rate increase , ideally combined with further discount rate cuts by Japan and Germany , would seem capable of stabilizing the dollar , " said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc. Allen Sinai of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc predicted a 1/4 to 1/2 point U.S. rate increase before May 19 and a rise in U.S. bank prime lending rates to eight pct from 7-3/4 pct in the near future . But many economists feared that any moderate U.S. rate increases , which appear unlikely to be matched by rate cuts overseas , would be too little , too late . " They should have done this 10 days ago . It would have done the trick then , " said one currency analyst . " If they do it now , it would be seen as a defensive measure not an offensive one . It would show policy weakness not strength , " added one trader . In addition , economists fear that a discount rate rise might place additional strain on a sluggish U.S. economy and tempt embattled debtor nations to retaliate . A U.S. discount rate increase would also fuel the protectionist fires in Washington , where the House is expected to pass a protectionist trade bill , whatever compromises President Reagan and Prime Minister Nakasone can come up with during their summit later in the week . " Politically , they ca n't really do it this week , " said one currency analyst , pointing out that if it failed to stabilize the dollar , it would only weaken the U.S. negotiating stance . Even if the U.S. retains the upper hand , economists and traders do not hold out high hopes for any major new initiatives from this week 's talks . At best , the experts see some sort of accord whereby Japan will agree to stimulate growth and open its domestic markets to outsiders while the U.S. promises to lift its tariffs and support the Group of Seven dollar stabilization agreement . But many fear that this may not be enough to assuage the market 's speculative selling fer vor , which has now raised fears of weak overseas interest at next week 's quarterly U.S. Treasury refunding program . Japanese and European investors have traditionally played an active role in these auctions , which are expected to total 28 to 29 billion dlrs . Consequently , thoughts are turning to the possibility that President Reagan may try to remove foreign investors ' worries about currency risk by financing part of the U.S. budget deficit in yen or mark bonds , rather than dollars . While similar action by former President Carter helped to stabilize the dollar in 1978 , the White House is clearly reluctant to take such a step , economists said . This hesitance was amply shown last Friday when U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said , "there might well be some who would view ( yen-denominated bonds ) as a lack of confidence by the U.S. in its own currenc y . " Baker added , " therefore we do n't think it 's an appropriate thing to do . " A foreign exchange analyst at a major Japanese bank here shared Baker 's doubts . " D ollar defending measures are very unlikely . They will confirm the dollar 's weak undertone and lead to further speculative dollar selling , " he said . Thus , it may be less destabilizing for the authorities to stop trying to fight the market 's bearish sentiment . In a recent lengthy report , economists at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co concluded , " the dollar should be left free to trade at whatever level market forces produce . " Reuter 
<TEST	21954	grain	corn>
Friday readjusted county price differentials for PIK corn redemptions traded off the Louisiana Gulf , according to a CCC spokesman at the Kansas City Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service , ASCS , office . He said the adjusted differentials supersede the adjustments made March 30 . They represent an increase over the original differentials but are lower than the differential adjustments recently made . For differentials of five to 15 cents , CCC added one cent . For 16-25 cents add two cents , for 26-35 cts add three cts , for 36-45 cts add four cts and for 46-55 cts add five cts . The recent drop in barge freight rates prompted the adjustments , the source said . Reuter 
<TEST	22142	grain	wheat>
weekly crop report said no measurable precipitation was reported across the province in the past week , allowing small grain seedings to progress rapidly across the south , with field preparation under way in the northern growing regions . Small grains should be seeded across the Province in one to two weeks , assuming weather remains dry . Planting progress was most advanced in the southeast , with 30 pct of the spring wheat acres and 40 pct of the barley acres seeded . Cereals plantings were well under way in the south central part of the province , with seedings spotty so far in the southwest . Summer fallow acres should be in line with the latest Statistics Canada projections , the report said . Reuter 
<TEST	22166	grain	wheat>
Shultz said it was up to the Agriculture Department to decide whether to offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union . Shultz told the Newspaper Farm Editors of America that a wheat bonus offer to the Soviet Union " is something that I basically leave to the Agriculture Department to figure out . " Last year , Shultz spoke out against President Reagan 's decision to offer subsidized U.S. wheat to the Soviet Union an offer Moscow spurned . " I 've always been a little put off by the idea that we would arrange our food supplies so as to price them in such a way that the Soviet housewife could buy American-produced food for less than the American housewife could buy it , " Shultz said . " It also seems to me that if we are going to sell in world markets , we have to meet the price , " he added . Shultz called proposals to broaden the eligibility criteria of USDA 's export enhancement program ( EEP ) to include all U.S. customers " questionable . " An across-the-board EEP would mark a " considerable change " in the current program , which Shultz said is designed " to say to other countries that subsidize , particularly the European Common Market , that we 're not going to give up our markets to those subsidized sales and we 'll have a little kit bag that will meet that competition and hold our markets for our farmers . " " If you just go across-the-board and subsidize everything , that 's a different order of program and seems to me quite questionable , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	22099	dlr	money-fx>
the dollar might force the United States eventually to unveil distasteful measures to bolster support for its currency , monetary analysts and economists said . Treasury Secretary James Baker has acknowledged that the Reagan administration discussed the possibility of issuing yen-denominated U.S. government bonds to support the dollar . But he has also dismissed speculation that he was ready to take such an unusual step . Nonetheless , monetary sources say the issue has been seriously discussed by the administration . " It is unlikely that we would undertake to do that now ," Baker said last week . " In our view there might well be some who would view ( issuing U.S. yen bonds ) as , in fact , a lack of confidence by the U.S. in its own currency . And therefore we do n't think it 's an appropriate thing to do . " But if the Reagan administration did announce measures , they could be a part of an internationally-coordinated effort to end the instability in financial markets with genuine action to reduce massive economic imbalances , monetary analysts believe . And , like a currency defense package unveiled by the Carter administration , issuing yen bonds could be accompanied by a rise in the discount rate , now 5.5 pct . The Federal Reserve has resisted pressure to raise this key rate so far , chiefly , some Fed officials say , because it could hurt economic growth . Another concern is the fragile international debt situation . Analysts who expect a currency support package are divided over its possible timing . Some even believe an announcement could come this week during a visit to Washington by Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone . " It would give some real focus to the visit , and it might steady the dollar and prevent it from going down , " said Charles Taylor , an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities . But monetary sources said they thought it unlikely that the Reagan administration would resort to measures which would bring to mind the troubles of President Carter . Until very recently , the current administration has urged a lower dollar to help redress its huge trade deficit while Carter faced a weak dollar as confidence in his economic policies collapsed . But today , Washington 's policies are increasingly in question . The Carter plan was unleashed on Nov. 1 , 1978 . And it was a resounding success . " This package really gave credibility to the administration to get the dollar up ," said Robert Hormats , vice-president of Goldman Sachs Inc and a former senior U.S. economic in the Carter and Reagan Administrations . The dollar then stood at just under 1.87 marks and around 188 yen . Today it stands around 1.79 marks and 139 yen . " The problem is now that the administration in rhetoric is evidencing concern about the dollar but in practice is really doing very littl e , " Hormats said of statements to support the dollar by U.S. officials . Several currency traders and foreign central bank officials think these statements still fall short of unequivocally saying the dollar has declined far enough . Carter issued 6.4 billion dlrs of mark and swiss franc bonds aimed essentially at buttressing pyschological support for the dollar but also at attracting foreign investors , who had lost confidence in the dollar , to U.S. government notes . The package was supported by a one pct rise in the discount rate , to 9.5 pct , drawings on U.S. monetary reserves at the International Monetary Fund and sales of U.S.-held SDRS to other IMF members . It was also supported by increased Fed currency swap lines with other central banks and stepped up official U.S. gold sales . Stephen Axilrod , a former Fed official who is now vice-chairman of Nikko Securities , said , " I think it 's very unlikely they would do that now . " He argued that it was politically difficult to take action to support the dollar while Japan and West Germany have still to fulfill pledges to stimulate their economies . But most analysts believe a currency support package would only work if genuine economic measures to redress world trade imbalances are undertaken by the leading industrial powers . It could coincide with the June Venice summit of leaders of the seven major industrial democracies the United States , Japan , West Germany , Britain , France , Italy and Canada . Hormats said he believed the currency has to decline slightly further for a package to have impact . He said the seven nations ' Paris Accord to stabilize currencies was forged too soon to fundamentally change market sentiment . " I think we 're nearing a point when they would feel ( politically ) comfortable doing this ," Hormats said . Many analysts think the administration 's reluctance to act firmly on the dollar has been due to its desire to keep up the pressure on its allies to bolster their economies and for fear of fanning protectionist sentiment in Congress . But Hormats said "there will be a point at which the government of the United States shows it does give a damn for the dollar . " Reuter 
<TEST	22077	money-fx>
advantage of its currency 's link with the U.S. Dollar , Hong Kong monetary affairs secretary David Nendick told the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank here . He said " We have taken the rough with the smooth , having to accept a downward adjustment of our economy in 1985 following a period when the U.S. Dollar was clearly overvalued in world terms , but benefiting as that currency subsequently declined . " He said that since the establishment of the link in 1983 , Hong Kong 's trade had been broadly in balance . This year a modest deficit was expected . " Under the link , Hong Kong 's entirely free and open economy continues to adjust quickly to any external imbalances , but the burden of adjustment now falls almost entirely on our domestic interest rates , money supply and price levels , " Nendick said . " The relative volatility in these domestic variables is the price we pay for the stability of our currency against the U.S. Dollar , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	22076	trade>
risen to a new high of 56 billion U.S. Dlrs , and officials attribute the increase to a surging trade surplus and the influx of speculative funds . The reserves , up from 54 billion dlrs on April 19 , compare with 27.3 billion a year ago , the Central Bank said . Vice economic minister Wang Chien-shien told Reuters " The rising reserves will certainly intensify our trade friction with the U.S. " A central bank official , who declined to be named , said Taiwan 's trade surplus is expected to exceed 5.5 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first four months of 1987 , against 4.25 billion a year ago . The influx of speculative funds , mainly from Hong Kong , Japan and the U.S. , Also played a major role behind the rise of the reserves , he said , but declined to give figures . Banking sources said almost 10 billion U.S. Dlrs had entered Taiwan since early 1986 . About three billion of the funds were remitted through different channels , including the black market , since the start of this year , they said . Wang Chao-ming , vice chairman of the government 's Council for Economic Planning and Development , said he expects the reserves to rise in the next few months because of the continuing high level of Taiwan 's exports and the steady appreciation of the local dollar against the U.S. Currency . " The latest government moves to open ( the domestic ) market , cut import tariffs and lift foreign exchange controls have achieved little success , " he said . Vice economic minister Li Mo said tariffs were cut on some 1,700 products in January and a further 862 this month in a bid to encourage more imports , especially the U.S. More tariff cuts on about 300 imported products , including televisions , video tape recorders , cosmetics and refrigerators will be announced in a month or two , Li said . Li 's colleague , Wang Chien-shien , said the government will send several trade missions to the U.S. This year to buy about one billion U.S. Dlrs of products , including machinery , power equipment , grains and precision tools . " We earnestly hope to reduce our trade surplus with the U.S. , " he said . Taiwan 's trade surplus rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985 , and it widened to 3.61 billion in the first quarter of 1987 against 2.78 billion a year ago , official statistics show . The surplus has increased U.S. Pressure on Taiwan for a faster appreciation of its currency , which has risen by about 18 pct since September 1985 . It opened at 33.10 to the U.S. Dollar today . REUTER 
<TEST	22071	trade>
surplus widened to a provisional 8.8 billion marks in March from a slightly downwards revised 6.5 billion in February , a spokesman for the Federal Statistics Office said . The trade surplus fell to a provisional 10.1 billion marks from 10.4 billion in February . The Statistics Office had earlier put the February current account surplus at a provisional 6.6 billion marks . The provisional February trade surplus was confirmed . The Office said the March trade surplus had also risen strongly from the year-ago month total of 8.5 billion marks , while the March current account surplus compared with only 4.3 billion marks a year earlier . The figures given by the office show nominal trade flows , but an office statement said that the current account surplus had also risen in real terms from February . However , it attributed this partly to the fact that payments to the European Community had been brought forward in February , with the result that transfers abroad in March were unusually low . The Statistics Office said March imports totalled 36.93 billion marks , a rise of 15 pct from February and of 4.7 pct compared with March 1986 . March exports of 47.06 billion marks were 11 pct higher than in February and 7.6 pct higher than in March last year . Other data reported in the current account balance showed there was a 400 mln mark deficit in supplementary trade items , a 500 mln mark deficit in the services account and a 400 mln mark deficit in transfer payments . The Statistics Office said that in the first three months of this year the trade surplus had risen to 27.8 billion marks from 22.6 billion marks in the same period last year . The current account surplus had risen to 20.0 billion marks from 15.6 billion . REUTER 
<TEST	22069	grain	corn>
importers awarded contracts to two U.S. Firms to supply two shipments totalling 81,000 tonnes , a committee spokesman said . Continental Grain Co of New York won a contract for the supply of 54,000 tonnes , priced at 96.17 U.S. Dlrs a tonne c and f Taiwan for delivery between May 21 and June 5 . Gulf Coast Grain Inc of Memphis , Tennessee , won a contract for 27,000 tonnes at 100.75 dlrs a tonne also c and f Taiwan , for May 21- June 5 delivery . REUTER 
<TEST	22066	grain>
decline further despite favourable prices and import licences for only 420,000 tonnes have been registered since the start of the current agricultural year , compared with 640,000 tonnes during August/April the previous year , trade sources said . The 12 European Community ( EC ) countries have licensed a total of 4.22 mln tonnes , while at the same year-earlier period the EC contracted for 3.17 mln tonnes , they said . The Netherlands is registering an increase in licences to around 2.9 mln tonnes , up 400,000 tonnes from last year , they said . Total EC tapioca imports during the current agricultural year are expected to stagnate at last year 's level of around 6.0 mln tonnes , the sources said . They reported a rise in consumption and in import licences for France , Spain and Belgium but said the West German compound feed industry was increasingly using grain in feed mixtures . Sellers quoted tapioca for nearby delivery at around 27 marks per 100 kilos against 37 marks in March and 34 marks in April last year . Feed barley was quoted at about 42 marks per 100 kilos , resulting in higher West German feed stuff prices , but demand was seen as slack . The sources said the West German feed industry was trying to help cut the grain surplus through increased use of grain in feed mixtures . Other EC member countries are likely to take advantage of the lower tapioca prices , they said . REUTER 
<TEST	22110	money-fx>
defended Taiwan 's policy of holding a large amount of its foreign exchange reserves in U.S. Dollars , citing similar policies followed by countries such as West Germany and Japan . The reserves , now a record 56 billion U.S. Dlrs , are the world 's largest after those of West Germany and Japan . About 90 pct is held in U.S. Dollars and the rest in yen and marks . Chang 's remarks to parliament were in response to a call on Monday by about 20 members of the parliament who asked the government to diversify into other currencies , including yen , marks and Swiss francs because of exchange rate losses . The legislators said the bank lost about 3.8 billion U.S. Dlrs between September 1985 and September 1986 as the Taiwan dollar rose to 36.77 to the U.S. Dollar from 40.45 . They said they expected the losses to continue because of the rising Taiwan dollar against the U.S. Currency . Chang said the central bank could not sell the U.S. Dollars like other private banks or enterprises because such trading would be speculative and risky . " The U.S. Dollar is an international currency and is widely used among trading nations , " he added . Chang said the Central Bank has further revised foreign exchange rules , which would relax most controls or even suspend them . The revised rules have been submitted to the cabinet for approval , he said . He declined to give details . REUTER 
<TEST	22167	grain	wheat>
wheat to China this month as food aid at a cost to the British aid program of 3.4 mln stg , the Overseas Development Administration ( ODA ) said . The wheat will be supplied by grain exporter Ceres UK Ltd. As part of the European Community 's obligation under the Food Aid Convention , the U.K. Is pledged to supply 110,700 tonnes of cereals each year . From this commitment the U.K. Makes allocations to the World Food Programme . REUTER 
<TEST	22057	trade>
expand five pct this calendar year , up from 3.8 pct in 1986 , despite a projected slight decline in agricultural output due to drought , the Bank of Thailand said . Central bank spokesman Siri Karncharoendi told reporters the Thai economy clearly recovered in the first quarter from the lingering effects of the 1984-85 recession . He said the industrial sector is expected to expand 5.5 pct this year , up from five pct in 1986 . Agricultural output is projected to grow 2.8 pct after 1.5 pct contraction in 1986 . He said January/M arch imports grew 19.2 pct to 70.7 billion baht , in response to an improving domestic market , compared with a nine pct decline to 59.3 billion a year ago . Non -oil imports grew 24.8 pct to 60.2 billion baht while oil imports declined 5.6 pct to 10.5 billion . First quarter exports increased 12.7 pct to 63.2 billion baht compared with 14.4 pct and 56.1 billion a year ago . Siri said he expects the trade deficit to widen to about 30 billion baht this year from 17.4 billion in 1986 . The current account , which last year posted a surplus of 3.5 billion baht , is projected to return to a 7.4 billion deficit in 1987 . He said overall January/M arch lending by the Thai banking system grew a strong nine pct to 577.9 billion baht , up from 4.7 pct growth in the previous quarter and 5.8 pct for the whole of 1986 . He said the Thai consumer price index rose 1.8 pct in the first quarter , down from 2.3 pct a year ago , but added that with the economy picking up , inflation is expected to rise to 2.5 pct this year from 1.9 pct for the whole 1986 . REUTER 
<TEST	22050	grain>
ministers ended a three-day meeting in Luxembourg still deeply divided over plans by the EC Commission to curb the cost of the EC 's farm policy through sharp cuts in farm returns . Their chairman , Belgium 's Paul de Keersmaeker , told a news conference after the meeting he would work on a paper setting out possible compromise solutions in the next two weeks , with the hope that the ministers can get down to detailed negotiations at a meeting in Brussels on May 18 . But diplomats said the talks this week had served little more than to clarify member states ' positions on the complex package of measures proposed by the commission . The executive body has proposed measures which would result in price cuts this year for many crops of upwards of 10 pct . Other controversial plans include a tax on EC-produced and imported oilseeds and fats to bring in two billion European currency units , to help the EC 's cash crisis , and changes in the conversion of EC common farm prices into national currencies which would inflict extra burdens on West German and Dutch farmers . De Keersmaeker attempted yesterday to narrow differences between EC states on the oils tax proposal , the currency measures and the key question of cereals prices and associated measures . But he told journalists , " We have used this meeting to reach the point at which real negotiations can start at the next meeting . Ideally they should have started now but our procedures took much longer than planned . " Ministers are in theory supposed to agree a price package by April 1 each year , although this target is seldom reached in practice . Diplomats said on all the points there were widely diverging views , with Britain and the Netherlands , the countries most supportive of commission proposals for cereals price cuts , strongly opposed to the oils tax . However , de Keersmaeker said West German objections to the monetary proposals could prove the most difficult issue to resolve . " This is a very tough political nut , and because of the very nature of the problem there is no technical solution , " he said . Commission sources said farm commissioner Frans Andriessen was prepared to alter some technical aspects of his proposals to make an agreement easier . However , because of the EC 's budgetary crisis , he had little room for concessions to pleas for a cut in the impact of his proposals on farmers ' incomes as several ministers , led by Germany 's Ignaz Kiechle , are demanding . EC Commission president Jacques Delors has warned that the EC will have an accumulated budgetary deficit of over five billion Ecus by the end of this year , even if the commission farm price package is adopted in its entirety . REUTER 
<TEST	22070	grain	corn>
on only 15.8 mln hectares or 11 pct of cultivated land by April 27 , compared with 26.2 mln ha by April 21 , 1986 , Izvestia said . Grains and pulses ( except maize ) were sown on 6.7 mln ha , compared with 13.1 mln at the same time last year , it added . Spring sowing is off to a slow start , with planting two to four weeks behind schedule in many areas of the Ukraine , Byelorussia and Russia , because the winter was unusually cold . Western agricultural experts believe the crop could still be good but heavy winterkill will make it difficult to reach the 1987 grain target of 232 mln tonnes . The 1986 crop was 210 mln . Reuter 
<TEST	22036	money-fx	interest>
Bundesbank will steer money market rates lower , opening the for interest rate cuts around Europe , is not shared by many economists and money market dealers within Germany . Speculation has developed that the Bundesbank would engineer lower rates to take pressure off the dollar/mark . A strong rise in U.S. Market rates this month , prompting speculation the Fed would raise its 5-1/2 pct discount rate , has raised the question whether Germany and Japan would also broaden interest rate differentials to support the dollar . The U.S.-Japanese trade dispute is the key to the interest rate outlook , money market dealers in Paris said . Talks this week between Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and President Reagan , if successful , could take pressure off the dollar , dealers and economists said . Short term interest rates would be likely to ease if the trade dispute is solved and the dollar stea dies , they said . But if no solution is found , the Paris dealers said , a renewed dollar fall would put strains on the mark/French franc rate and force the Bank of France to raise short-term rates . The three-month U.S. Treasury bill rate rose to six pct this week from 5.6 pct at the start of April , and the yield on the 30-year benchmark treasury bonds rose this week in Tokyo to a 14-month high of 8.86 pct from 7.66 pct in late March . The dollar stabilized today just below 1.80 marks and above 140 yen , underpinned by higher U.S. Rates and the Fed discount rate speculation . But most dealers expect it to weaken further , which would put pressure on the Bundesbank to ease interest rates . Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said yesterday the U.S. Had requested Japan to cut short-term interest rates . The Bank of Japan was making efforts to do this , he said , adding the U.S. Had not asked for a cut in Japan 's 2.5 pct discount rate , a move which Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said was not under consideration . A call for a German move came yesterday from Dutch central bank president Wim Duisenberg , who said the Dutch central bank favoured a cut in West German interest rates and would follow suit if it happened . Citibank AG said in its April report that another expected phase of dollar weakness would prompt the Bundesbank to cut key money market rates in the next three to six months . The Bundesbank has set a fixed rate of 3.80 pct on repurchase pacts since February , with call money trading around 3.70 pct for much of April . Phillips and Drew senior European economist Richard Reid said the Bundesbank would allow interest rates to ease further , either with a lower fixed rate tender , or a tender by interest rate , allowing the market to set the rate . " I 'm fairly confident we 'll see lower rates , " he said . Reid said taking 30 basis points off the repurchase rate would have little impact on the German economy or fundamental exchange rates , but could change market currency perceptions . " A cut in German rates would n't be bad for the dollar , but I think its effect would be limited in duration unless it was accompanied by other measures elsewher e , " he said . Money market dealers here noted the speculation abroad that the Bundesbank would push down repurchase rates , but said the Bundesbank had little reason to cut rates further at the moment , despite the liquid market seen for most of this month . The dealers said the Bundesbank was likely to move to an interest rate tender for its repurchase pacts next month . That should not be seen as a sign of easing monetary policy however , they said . The Bundesbank would merely be experimenting with interest rate tenders , following the introduction of a new system to speed up the tender process at the start of April , they said . Reinhard Pohl , head of the monetary policy section at the DIW economic research institute in West Berlin , said the Bundesbank would probably not cut rates on repurchase pacts . " I do n't think that if they cut the repurchase rate a little it would stop a wave of ( currency ) speculation , " he said . But a sharp and sudden deterioration in the dollar could force the Bundesbank to take some action , he said . Pohl said the Bundesbank was concerned that a cut in interest rates would accelerate excessive monetary growth . Some Bundesbank officials have argued recently that the monetary overshoot was due to strong currency inflows rather than credit growth , and therefore a more appropriate response to excessive money supply growth would be to cut rates , to make the mark and mark investments less attractive . Pohl said the Bundesbank was hoping that domestic investors would switch funds parked in liquid short-term accounts , which have swollen central bank money stock , into securities , which would take them out of the Bundesbank 's key monetary measure . A cut in interest rates at this stage however would lead investors to assume that rates had bottomed out and the next move would be upwards . They would therefore hold off buying bonds , leaving central bank money stock swollen . There are so far no signs that German investors are switching funds into long term securities as the Bundesbank hopes they will , Berliner Handels und Frankfurter Bank economist Hermann Remsperger said . But Phillips and Drew 's Reid said prospects of lower rates and a strong currency would attract foreign investors into German bonds , which would in turn attract domestic investors . Werner Rein , chief economist at Union Bank of Switzerland in Zurich , said he thought it likely that interest rates would continue to drift lower in many European countries . " The scope for lower rates is probably greatest in Britain but more limited in West Germany , where we could see some consolidation , " he said . Switzerland could be forced to match any cut in German rates to prevent the franc rising further against the mark , he said . Currency dealers in London said another half-point cut in U.K. Bank base rates was likely in the next few weeks as the pound had shrugged off yesterday 's cuts and was still rising . REUTER 
<TEST	22168	grain	wheat>
accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 8,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat to Zaire , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . The wheat is scheduled for shipment May 11-June 11 , 1987 , the department said . The bonus , to Continental Grain Co , was 32.55 dlrs per tonne and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks . An additional 7,000 tonnes of wheat are still available to Zaire under the Export Enhancement program initiative announced on October 17 , 1986 , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	22022	money-fx>
the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) and the World Bank by raising the price of diesel oil and other types of transport fuels . The energy price increases were the first visible measures taken in return for IMF standby credits and World Bank loans . Effective today , fuel oil prices were trebled and prices of gas oil , diesel and kerosene went up by over 50 pct , an Egyptian General Petroleum Corp ( EGPC ) official said . He said fuel oil will sell for 28 Egyptian pounds a ton , instead of 7.5 pounds . Kerosene and gas oil were raised by 66 pct to sell for five piasters a litre , while diesel rose 50 pct to 4.5 piasters . The government is expected also to act soon , possibly as early as next weekend , to simplify the country 's complex exchange rate system , bankers said . Moving towards a more realistic exchange rate for the pound was part of a package of reforms sought by the IMF and creditor governments . In return , Egypt stands to receive up to one billion dlrs in IMF standby credits phased over three years to help it repay its 38.6 billion dlr foreign debt and guarantee rescheduling by western governments , the main creditors . Energy price increases were also a condition of progress on World Bank project loans of up to 800 mln dlrs in energy , communications and other sectors which have been under negotiation for several months , western diplomats said . The U.S. And Western Europe have pledged political backing for President Hosni Mubarak 's government , committed to a multi-party political system and peace with Israel and strategically poised in control of the Suez Canal . Fuel price rises , postponed at least once and likely to lead to higher retail prices of basic goods , were a test of the government 's resolve to pursue economic reform , diplomats said . But the new prices are still below world market levels . There was no announcement of increases in more politically sensitive products such as gasoline or natural gas , used for cooking , and the mass-circulation Al-Akhbar newspaper said they would stay the same . Official comment was not available on speculation among bankers and diplomats that the Central Bank would soon tinker with the pound 's exchange rates to try to channel more dollars into the banking system away from the illegal but tolerated free market . The Central Bank was expected to set up a committee in which 10 commercial banks , including the four state-owned banks , would decide the pound 's value every day . The official " incentive rate , " currently set by the Central Bank daily , is around 1.36 pounds to the dollar , against 2.15 on the free market . Bankers predicted that the banks ' committee might set rates around 1.80 or 1.90 . But some doubted this would serve the aim of curbing the free market . REUTER 
<TEST	22100	dlr	money-fx>
decline in the value of the dollar could be counterproductive . In written answers to questions put by Japan 's Asahi Shimbun newspaper , he noted Treasury Secretary James Baker had said all seven major industrial nations were committed to cooperating in fostering stability of exchange rates . " We all believe a further decline of the dollar could be counterproductive , " Reagan said . Reagan said the best way for the United States to reduce its trade deficit was to export more . He said Japan could make a major contribution to reducing external imbalances and sustaining world economic growth by adopting policies to promote stronger domestic demand in the short-run and , in the long-run , implementing structural reforms to ease Japanese dependence on exports as a source of growth . Reuter 
<TEST	22169	grain	wheat>
whether to seek a penalty from Continental Grain Co of the United States for alleged breach of a wheat shipment contract , but is also asking the company to expedite shipment of the cargo , a senior Food Ministry official said . The official , who declined to be named , said the company under a deal agreed to ship 100,000 tonnes of wheat by April 7 and another 100,000 tonnes by April 16 . But it shipped only 126,000 tonnes altogether . The supplier will have to pay penalty at a rate of two dlrs per tonne for every delayed day according to a document signed by both the Food Ministry and the suppliers ' agent in Dhaka , he told Reuters . " If they arrange quick shipment , we may take a lenient view , " the official said . The issue is expected to be decided at a cabinet meeting scheduled for next Sunday , he added . A pro-government Bengali daily " Dainik Janata " reported today that Continental Grain could face a penalty of 200 mln taka ( 6.49 mln dlrs ) for alleged failure to maintain shipment schedule . The local agent of Continental Grain , Shafi Ahmed Choudhury , told Reuters he applied to the Bangladesh government for an extension of the shipment period because loading of wheat at London was being delayed due to bad weather and a faulty elevator at a grain silo . But the government has not yet granted the extension , he said . Choudhury said the freight rate and price of wheat had gone up after the deal was signed , which resulted in a financial loss to the company . He said he was not " officially informed " of the move to impose a penalty , although he was " not totally unaware of it . " Continental Grain officials in New York declined to comment . Reuter 
<TEST	22101	dlr	money-fx>
u .s . dollar would decline another 30 pct by year-end , but said he foresees no significant change in u .s . interest rates . " the market recognizes another 30 pct dollar depreciation is necessary , " said rudiger dornbush of the massachusetts institute of technology . he said the only thing preventing the dollar from dropping far below current levels was intervention by central banks in definace of market forces . he said artifical support of the dollar had put the world 's financial markets in an " excessively volatile " position , however , and predicted that within about four months " it is going to be very difficult to keep the dollar in place . " the forecasts , dornbush added , are for " a steady deterioration from now on . " dornbush , a university of chicago-educated economist , works with the national bureau of economic research as well as mit . he spoke here at the invitation of panama 's national banking association , sponsor of a three-day international banking convention that got under way yesterday . dornbush discarded fears of soaring u .s . interest rates because of the declining dollar . " the u .s . cannot raise interest rates . if it raises interest rates all the debts will bounce in the foreign sector and all over latin america , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	17436	ship>
Velayati warned that Iran would combat any superpower intervention in the Gulf . " Iran , which is the most powerful ( country ) in the Gulf Will not allow the superpowers or any other foreign forces to interfere in the region , " he said . Velayati , visiting the United Arab Emirates on the first leg of a Gulf tour , told reporters Iran had the " capabilities and means " to prevent any interference . President Reagan has pledged to keep the Gulf sealanes open and to protect Kuwaiti tankers from possible Iranian attack . REUTER 
<TEST	17443	grain>
importing millions of tonnes of grain a year from overseas and other parts of China because farmers have switched from grain to more profitable crops , the Peking Review magazine said . The official magazine said the province 's grain area fell to 4.33 mln hectares in 1985 from 5.7 mln in 1978 out of a total farmland area of 7.4 mln hectares . Farmers have switched to cash crops such as sugarcane , bananas , oranges , papaya and freshwater fish-farming , in part to supply major consumer markets in Hong Kong and Macao , the magazine said . It gave no 1986 area figures . The magazine said China aims to keep 80 pct of national farmland under grain , 10 pct under cash crops and 10 pct under other crops , although the ratio will vary from place to place . It said primitive cultivation methods , labour-intensity and low productivity make grain the least profitable farm commodity . Farmers in one central region of China can from 0.1 hectare earn 2,250 yuan a year from vegetables , 375-450 yuan from cotton or 225 yuan from grain , it added . It said consumer prices for foodgrain can be adjusted only gradually as part of a reform of the entire pricing system . REUTER 
<TEST	17448	interest>
Schlesinger said the West German central bank had no plan to cut its three pct discount rate , Nihon Keizai newspaper reported . The financial daily quoted Schlesinger as saying in an interview that the bank would try to maintain current interest rate levels for the time being . He also told the newspaper he saw no need for large-scale intervention in the foreign exchange market because exchange rates are stable . Earlier , Schlesinger told a press conference that the Bundesbank would continue its policy of maintaining short-term interest rates at a low level for currency stability . He also said he was satisfied with the current dollar/mark exchange rate but added that he was not certain if it was ideal for the West German economy . REUTER 
<TEST	17449	trade>
items , including construction equipment , photographic film , cigarettes and pipe tobacco , to help reduce its trade surplus with the United States , the finance ministry said . The tariff cuts , of between five and 30 percentage points , take effect on July 1 . This brings to 157 the number of goods on which import taxes have been cut this year , a ministry official said . The 157 are among about 290 items on which Washington has asked Seoul to lower tariffs , he added . Today 's announcement follows Saturday 's removal of import curbs on 170 products . For 46 of those products , the U.S. Had had sought free access to the South Korean market . " This is in line with the government 's policy to limit our trade surplus with the United States to help reduce trade friction between the two countrie s , " the official said . South Korea 's trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to 7.3 billion dlrs in 1986 from 4.3 billion in 1985 . Officials said the surplus was expected to widen further in 1987 but Seoul would try to hold it below eight billion dlrs . The finance ministry said tariffs would be cut later this month on a further 53 items , including acrylic yarn and ethylene , by an average 7.7 percentage points in order to check inflation . The officials said the tariff cuts would contribute to holding wholesale and consumer price rises at less than three pct this year . REUTER 
<TEST	17452	trade>
reduce the flow of foreign goods into the United States will do little to cut the nation 's swelling trade deficit , a government study said . In fact , the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) report said , such protectionist policies could make U.S. Products less competitive in the world marketplace by raising the cost of imported products that are re-exported in different forms . " Such policies are much more likely to hurt , rather than help , the productive capabilities of the U.S. Economy , " it said . The 218-page report , written by FTC economists John Hilke and Philip Nelson , blamed the rising trade shortfall , which climbed to a record 166.3 billion dlrs last year , on shifting currency exchange rates and growing U.S consumer demand . Other factors commonly blamed for the deficit , such as foreign trade practices , deteriorating U.S. Industrial competitiveness , high labour costs and government restrictions on mergers , added little to the problem , it said . " Although each industry 's competitiveness affects the level of imports and exports in that industry , in general we find that there have been no significant industry-specific changes affecting competitiveness that would explain the increase in the overall trade deficit , " the study said . " To the extent any government action is needed to deal with the trade deficits , policies should focus on economy-wide phenomena such as exchange rates and relative economic growth ," the FTC study said . Supporting its conclusion that broad-based economic shifts were the cause of the increase in the trade deficit , the report said it found that nearly all U.S. Industries lost some domestic market share to foreign competitors in the 1980s . It also said it found a " fairly direct relationship " between the increased trade deficit and the influence of shifting currency exchange rates , U.S. Economic growth and domestic demand for goods and services , which has outpaced foreign consumer demand . The study examined seven factors which have been commonly blamed for the trade deficit foreign government subsidies and trade barriers to protect foreign industries , a lack of investment in U.S. Industry , declining research and development in U.S. Industry , high labour costs , union work rules , the oil prices rises of the 1970s and U.S. Antitrust regulations . In each case , the study found little or no evidence that the factor had any impact on the trade deficit . REUTER 
<TEST	17462	ship>
Gulf will bring a forceful and violent response , a Soviet foreign ministry official said in an interview published here . Alexander Ivanov , head of the Gulf desk at the Soviet Foreign Ministry , told Al-Rai al-A am newspaper Moscow " will answer back with force and violence if Iran attempts to attack any Soviet ship or tanker in the Gulf . " A Soviet tanker hit a mine in the Gulf last month . Ivanov also accused the United States of stepping up the regional crisis and of failing to exert genuine efforts to end the Iran-Iraq war . REUTER 
<TEST	17470	interest>
for funds to the domestic interbank deposit market shut as banks returned from a four day holiday , dealers said . The move drove short-term interest rates sharply higher , with overnight and tomorrow-next funds more than doubling from last Wednesday and hitting 20 pct . There were few offers in a tight market and traders scrambled for any available funds . One-month to one-year deposits were indicated one point higher at eight , seven pct but there was little activity at the longer end of the market . Bankers see the suspension of central bank aid as a deliberate move to drive up Kuwaiti dinar interest rates and stem a flow of funds out of the country , where market nervousness is increasing over the growing tension in the Gulf . The central bank 's move has been combined with a steady cut in the dinar exchange rate . Today 's rate was reduced to 0.27939/73 to the dollar from 0.27758/92 on Wednesday before the four day bank holiday that celebrated the end of the fasting month of Ramadan . REUTER 
<TEST	17478	crude>
dlrs a barrel until the end of the year , but OPEC 's decision on output at its next meeting would be the critical factor , an official of Mexico 's state oil company , Petroleos Mexicanos ( Pemex ) , told a group of Japanese businessmen . Adrian Lajous , Pemex ' executive vice president of international trade , said current OPEC output already appeared to be very near the 16.6 mln barrel per day level it set itself for the third quarter . " Production is surging ahead of what was originally planned , while demand is growing more slowly than envisaged a few months ago , " he said . He said OPEC had to look very carefully at what level of production in the third quarter would effectively sustain the 18 dlrs price , and that an increase to what had originally been envisaged might soften price levels . The 13-member cartel is scheduled to meet on June 25 in Vienna to review its December accord on prices and output . " I hope OPEC will follow a very conservative attitude in terms of volume decisions , " Lajous said . A repetition of what happened last year , when OPEC boosted output and sent oil prices tumbling down below 10 dlrs , is always there as a possibility , he said . " I hope never again to go through the trauma of 1986 . I expect other oil exporters have learned their lessons and discipline will be maintained , " he said . Lajous said there was still excess supply and as long as this remains there will be a tendency to instability in oil markets , but prices should remain around 18 to 19 dlrs during 1987 if output remains under control . He said Saudi King Fahd 's remarks last month , that increased production was not so important as long as incomes would not be affected by the output , were " very relevant and welcome from such a powerful producer . " REUTER 
<TEST	17492	ship>
Nyhammer , 48,772 dwt , was attacked by an Iranian gunboat on May 24 , Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said . One rocket was fired but missed . The vessel subsequently arrived at its destination of Ras Tanura on May 25 and left this morning . REUTER 
<TEST	17503	grain	wheat	corn>
forecast that French end-of-season soft wheat stocks will almost double in 1987/88 is premature but would not be surprising , according to French cereal organisation officials . The Cereals Intervention Board , ONIC , Wheat Producers ' Association and the National Union of Agricultural and Cereal Cooperatives have not yet forecast 1987/88 exports or end-of-season stocks . However , the officials said the USDA 's figure of end 1987/88 stocks at 5.03 mln tonnes against 1986/87 's 2.87 mln was not surprising given a record high yield forecast in April . The French Feed Cereals Research Institute , ITC F , forecast in mid-April an average yield of 6.58 tonnes per hectare for soft wheat in 1987/88 compared with 5.6 tonnes in 1986/87 and the record high yield of 6.5/6.6 tonnes in 1984 . This would result in a French soft wheat harvest of around 31 mln tonnes against 25.5 mln in 1986/87 , given a Ministry of Agriculture estimate of area planted of 4.66 mln hectares against 4.61 mln in 1986/87 . ONIC 's first preliminary forecast of the 1987/88 campaign will be released at the beginning of September , an ONIC official said . Soft wheat exports in 1987/88 were extremely difficult to estimate at this stage , both within the European Community and to non-EC countries , an ONIC official said . He said , however , that among countries to which France could increase its wheat exports were Egypt and the Maghreb countries ( Morocco , Algeria and Tunisia ) , he said . The USDA 's forecast of an 11.65 mln tonne maize crop in 1987/88 against 11.48 mln in 1986/87 , while again premature , was not out of line with estimates of the French Maize Producers Association , AGPM , an AGPM official said . Maize plantings would be down in 1987/88 but yields were expected to be higher , the AGPM official said . It estimated 1987/88 maize plantings of 1.73 mln hectares , down seven pct from the 1.87 mln hectares planted in 1986/87 . Reuter 
<TEST	17509	grain	corn>
minor price cuts for essential commodities as part of its new economic strategy , while police and troops patrolled the northern Copperbelt to prevent any outbreaks of rioting . However , staple foods , such as bread , sugar and maize meal , were not affected by the cuts and many people said this could provoke trouble from disgruntled elements who had expected more sweeping reductions . Observers in the capital expressed disillusionment with the small extent of the price cuts , which ranged up to 10 pct on items such as blankets , soap , detergents and baby food . Residents in the Copperbelt contacted by telephone said government forces had set up roadblocks around the main towns . In Lusaka , business went on as usual and there was no sign of troops or police reinforcements on the streets . President Kaunda had ordered the price reductions to take account of lower import costs following the revaluation of the kwacha to a fixed rate of eight per dlr from 21 on May 1 . The revaluation formed part of a new go-it-alone economic strategy which Kaunda adopted to replace Zambia 's IMF austerity program . Labour leaders in the Copperbelt said last week gangs of unemployed youths were being formed in the politically volatile region to take action against shops that did not reduce their prices after today 's deadline . Fifteen people were killed in the Copperbelt during food riots last December after the government tried to lift maize subsidies . Reuter 
<TEST	17511	trade>
goods , including construction equipment , cigarettes and tobacco , to help reduce its trade surplus with the United States , the Finance Ministry said today . The tariff cuts of between five and 30 pct will take effect on July 1 . South Korea ran a trade surplus of 7.3 billion dlrs with Washington in 1986 , sharply up from 4.3 billion in 1985 . Today 's announcement brings to 157 the number of goods for which similar measures were taken this year , a ministry official said . The 157 are among about 290 items on which Washington has asked Seoul to lower tariffs . " This is in line with the government 's policy to limit our trade surplus with the United States to help reduce trade friction between the two countrie s , " said the official . Reuter 
<TEST	17516	crude>
Commission ( ONGC ) plans to drill more wells in the Bombay offshore area , where a well spudded in February this year gave both oil and gas , an ONGC spokesman said . The exploratory well , spudded at a depth of 2,140 metres , yielded 2,000 barrels of oil and 180,000 cubic metres of gas per day , he said . " The well , one of the four structures drilled in the area 80 km north-west of Bombay , indicates good prospects of both oil and gas . We 've decided to drill at least three more wells in there before starting production on a commercial scale . " Production of Bombay High , part of the Bombay offshore field , has stabilised at around 500,000 barrels per day for the last two years . ONGC produced 27.85 mln tonnes of crude in 1986/87 ending March , up from 27.51 the previous year . Bombay High accounted for 20.61 mln tonnes , marginally up from 20.10 the year before . India 's total oil output is around 30 mln tonnes . ONGC has been exploring the Bombay offshore area , developed since the late 1970s , for more oil as production from Bombay High has reached a plateau . REUTER 
<TEST	17519	crude>
collective agreement with Aramco to purchase oil for the latter 's ex-partners is moving along and should lead to a fundamental structural change in the contract , oil industry sources said . Petroleum Intelligence Weekly , in this Monday 's edition , said negotiations are moving along for adjustment of the 1.34 mln bpd joint long term agreement at official prices and volumes and other terms may be rearranged . The agreement signed in January for the months from February to June is up for renegotiation . Under the January contract Aramco was to purchase 1.34 mln bpd for the four partners allocated among them as Exxon Corp <XON> 440,000 bpd , Texaco Inc <TX> 350,000 bpd , Mobil Corp <MOB> and Chevron Corp <CHV> 550,000 bpd between them . But an overlifting by Texaco Inc in the first quarter allowed other companies like Exxon Corp to underlift its obligations under the contract PIW said that that one alternative under consideration is to revert to four individual contracts rather than a collective agrement . John Lichtblau , director of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation Inc said that renegotiation of the pact was more of a formality as the Saudis have each company on a separate schedule although separate agreements with the companies would favor one on one negotiations and ensure that contracted liftings occur . " The companies will probably follow the Saudi wants within limits as they do not want to antagonize them for the long hau l , " he said . Lichtblau said that the renegotiations would most likely concentrate on volume rather than price . Saudi displeasure with the agreement has long been noted and in April industry publications said that renegotiation were being sought , a fact later confirmed by Reuters with Aram co . Aramco Corp was formerly owned by Chevron Corp <CHV> , Exxon Corp <XON> , Mobil Corp <MOB> and Texaco Inc <TX> but is now owned by Saudi Arabia which bought its assets although the ex-partners have various agreements with Saudi Arabia . Reuter 
<TEST	17521	grain	wheat>
returned to their homes over the weekend after a week of heavy rains and severe flooding that left two dead and caused more than 20 mln dlrs in damage , officials said . Some 900 people were evacuated from their homes during the rains and flooding last week , civil defense officials said . Many of the shelters set up throughout the state in areas threatened by flooding , except those near the Washita and Red Rivers , closed as residents returned to their damaged homes . Farmers who had expected a near-record wheat crop now say this year will see one of the largest losses in decades . Gov. Henry Bellmon , who on Thursday declared a flooding emergency for central Oklahoma , was expected to ask President Reagan for federal disaster relief for the area . In northern Texas , officials reported several tornadoes on Friday . A twister in Lubbock yesterday damaged six mobile homes and two houses . No injuries were reported . Reuter 
<TEST	17523	money-fx>
money market with late assistance of around 25 mln stg . This takes the Bank 's total help today to some 137 mln stg and compares with its latest forecast of a 150 mln stg shortage . REUTER 
<TEST	17577	money-fx	interest>
reserves to the U.S. banking system by arranging a round of customer repurchase agreements during this morning 's intervention period , several economists said . Some others , however , judged that the Fed has almost completed its reserve-adding requirement for the statement period ending on Wednesday and will not need to operate today . Fed funds were trading at 6-11/16 pct , compared with Friday 's average of 6.63 pct . Reuter 
<TEST	17593	interest>
are meeting here today to consider a new plan for reducing the cost of financing British exports guaranteed by the Export Credits Guarantee Department ( ECGD ) , senior banking sources said . The plan is being developed in conjunction with the ECGD and the Bank of England . Neither the ECGD nor the Bank of England would comment on the plan . However , bankers said one of the main points under discussion is a plan to refinance the bulk of the ECGD 's medium term credit portfolio in the international capital markets . The proposals involve introducing a set of interest margins on ECGD backed debt of 5/1 6 to 7/8 pct , depending on the size and maturity of the credit and the currency . The banks are likely to push for a higher margin . Bankers said that while these rates would reduce a bank 's return they would still be more than those proposed about a year ago when the government attempted unsuccessfully to initiate another cost reduction plan . At the same time , the banks would be expected to allow the ECGD to realise additional savings by refinancing existing government backed credit in the capital markets . On credits that are refinanced an original lender would receive a residual margin of 7/16 pct for loans up to 10 mln stg and 3/16 pct on larger transactions . REUTER 
<TEST	17618	crude>
solution to defuse a row between Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S <STAT.OL> ( Statoil ) and Conoco Norge A/S over which firm will operate the Heidrun oil field , government sources said . The sources , who asked not to be named , said the government will likely recommend that Conoco be allowed to continue as the field 's operator through the development phase , with Statoil taking over only after production starts in the early 1990s . Oil Minister Arne Oeien told Reuters the government had today discused the Heidrun matter but that no final decision had been taken and several questions remained unresolved . It was unlikely the government would announce its decision on Heidrun operatorship until after Thursday 's cabinet meeting and after discussing a proposed solution with both companies , the sources added . This spring Norway 's state-owned oil company Statoil exercised an option in the Heidrun field exploration license that , if approved by the government , would allow it to relieve Conoco as Heidrun operator , a move sharply criticised by Conoco . Heidrun is often cited by the government and industry as the most likely candidate for the first field development project on the Haltenbanken exploration tract off central Norway . Reuter 
<TEST	17620	interest	money-fx>
in Dutch official interest rates is still in prospect , although economists said the timing would depend on Bundesbank moves . Speculation has been rife that the Dutch Central Bank , encouraged by a strong guilde r /mark relationship and wide premiums for Dutch money and capital market rates over German , might lower rates without the Bundesbank moving first . Last month , the Central Bank lowered its special advances rate to 5.1 pct from 5.25 pct after the Bundesbank dropped its repurchase tender rate to 3.55 pct from 3.8 pct . That rate has remained in force , just holding above the five pct official secured loans rate which governs commercial bank borrowings . Given a strong guilder , a further fall in the West German repo rate would trigger a lower special advances tariff , forcing an official Dutch rate cut , analysts said . In February , when the Bundesbank cut its discount rate to three pct from 3.5 pct , the Central Bank only lowered money market rates and removed a surcharge over the secured loans rate on lending under its three month credit quota . Since then , however , both the Central Bank and Finance Ministry have made it clear they favour lower official rates . In April , Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg said he would follow any Bundesbank cut , and last week the Finance Ministry expressed satisfaction when it raised 2.25 billion guilders with a six pct coupon state loan priced at 100.10 pct for an effective yield of 5.98 pct , the lowest since 1965 . Technically , analysts said , there has to be a difference between the secured loans rate which applies to lending under the credit quota , and the tariff on special advances which add extra liquidity to the money market . Bank economists and dealers said a West German move to further lower the rate on securities repurchase pacts would result in the Central Bank easing the special advance rate , provided the guilde r /mark relationship permitted . The Central Bank aims to keep the guilder stable around its parity value within the European Monetary System of 112.673 guilders per 100 marks . Today , foreign exchange buying pushed the mark up 10 guilder cents to 112.705 guilders per 100 at the fix , a level that would not permit a change in the interest rate differential between West Germany and the Netherlands , dealers said . An economist at ABN Bank said he expected West German and Dutch interest rates to ease in the short term . However , he said new wage agreements in West Germany had raised inflation expectations which would put upward pressure on interest rates in the longer term . In the Netherlands , the inflation outlook for 1987 is nil , or even negative , while the latest official economic forecasts point to a falling rate of economic growth . " It will depend on the outcome of collective wage agreement negotiations here whether there could be cost push inflation , " the ABN economist said . He said Dutch money supply growth , which ran at 3.4 pct in January , could also contribute to some inflation . At Amro Bank , a leading analyst said inflation could run to two pct next year . The bank expects Dutch capital market rates , currently averaging around 6.1 pct , to stop easing in the second half of this year and stabilize around 5.6 pct . Analysts said an official rate cut could trigger a buying spree on the bond market which would bring yields down , probably only temporarily , while money rates could fall below five pct . Currently , all periods are traded at 5.12 to 5.25 pct in the money market . REUTER 
<TEST	17658	crude>
the Gulf of Mexico climbed by 2.1 pct last week to 38.9 pct , reflecting a total of 91 working rigs , Offshore Data Services said . One year ago , the Gulf of Mexico utilization rate was 32.5 pct . Offshore Data Services said some drilling contractors had reported recent increases of about 1,000 dlrs a day on large jackup rigs , which now command rates of 11,000 to 12,000 dlrs a day . In the European/Mediterranean area the rig utilization rate rose 0.6 pct to 53.6 pct , against 67.3 pct one year ago . Worldwide rig utilization rose by 1.2 pct to 57.7 pct , reflecting a net increase of eight working rigs . Offshore Data Services said a total of 419 rigs were in use worldwide and 307 were idled last week . Reuter 
<TEST	17662	grain	wheat>
( ONIC ) will tender Wednesday for 20,000 tonnes soft wheat for Pakistan under the French food aid programme , an ONIC official said . The grain will be shipped between June 15 and July 15 . ONIC also will hold a tender June 9 for 65,000 tonnes soft wheat under the European Community food aid programme , for shipment in bulk during August , the official said . Reuter 
<TEST	17669	crude>
last week to a total of 758 , against 723 working rigs at this time last year , Baker Hughes Inc said . In Canada , the weekly rig count rose 19 to 100 , compared to 46 working rigs last year . Among individual states , the steepest declines were in Oklahoma and Louisiana which lost eight and seven , respectively . Drilling increases were reported by Michigan , up by five rigs , and Ohio and Pennsylvania which each rose by three . Baker Hughes said the total of 758 working rigs in the United States included 84 rigs working in offshore waters . Reuter 
<TEST	17670	trade>
House of Representatives " is a very dangerous bill for Canadian industry , " Canadian Forest Industry Council chairman Adam Zimmerman told reporters . By changing the definition of subsidy under U.S. countervailing duty law , House of Representatives Bill 3 removes protection for companies that take advantage of widely used government programs , Zimmerman told a media briefing . " Clearly , any industry to which Canadian governments grant rights to fish , mine , cut timber , or produce power could be vulnerable to a finding of a subsidy under this language , " he said . The Canadian forest lobby 's Zimmerman also said the House of Representative Bill would adopt a new way of measuring subsidies that would greatly increase the size of any countervailing duties that might be imposed on Canadian resource exports to the U.S. Under the bill , any difference between Canadian prices and U.S. or world market prices would constitute a subsidy , he said . Such a method would make Canadian resource industries vulnerable to similar penalties like a 15 pct export tax imposed last January on shipments of Canadian softwood lumber to the U.S. , Zimmerman added . Canadian negotiators agreed to levy the new tax if a U.S. forest industry lobby would drop its request for a countervail duty on imports of Canadian softwood lumber . " We represent the first victim of the move to price other countries ' natural resources according to the U.S. system , " Zimmerman said . " If we 're an example , than other resource industries had better watch out , " he added . Zimmerman said the Canadian Forest Industry Council plans to discuss concerns about the U.S. trade bill with lobby groups from other Canadian resource industries . Reuter 
<TEST	17748	money-fx>
for the Venice economic summit on Wednesday , said the United States and its allies must fulfill agreements on exchange rate stability . " Economic policy decisions made last year in Tokyo , and at this year 's meetings of Group of 7 Finance ministers in Paris and in Washington , cannot be ignored or forgotten , " he said . " The commitments made at these meetings need to be translated into action , " Reagan said in a pre-summit speech celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Marshall Plan . Reuter 
<TEST	17750	ship	crude>
the Mideast Gulf situation with allied leaders at next week 's Venice economic summit and hinted he would seek their help in preserving free navigation . In a speech prepared for delivery as the United States made plans to protect 11 Kuwaiti oil tankers from Iranian attack , Reagan said the American people were aware that " it is not our interests alone that are being protected . " Saying that allied dependence on gulf oil was no secret , Reagan declared , "During the upcoming summit in Venice , we will be discussing the common security interests shared by the western democracies in the MIDEAST Gulf . " The future belongs to the brave . Free men should not cower before such challenges , and they should not expect to stand alone . " Reagan will meet the leaders of Britain , France , West Germany , Italy , Canada and Japan at the economic summit , which will take place in Venice June 8-10 . The 13th annual top-level meeting of the major industrial democracies will take place against a backdrop of rising congressional concern over Reagan 's plan to protect gulf shipping and demands that the allies do more . These concerns were heightened by the May 17 Iraqi missile attack on the U.S. frigate Stark which killed 37 seamen . " They died while guarding a chokepoint of freedom , deterring aggression and reaffirming America 's willingness to protect its vital interests , " Reagan said . In a pre-summit speech celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Marshall Plan , Reagan , who spoke to an audience of foreign affairs experts , also pledged to push for economic expansion by West Germany and Japan to bolster the world trading system . " While the vibrancy of the U.S. economy has contributed enormously to the world expansion , preserving a growing world economy is the business of every member of the world trading community , " he said . " It will be made clear , especially to our friends in Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany , that growth-oriented domestic policies are needed to bolster the world trading system on which they depend . " Reagan coupled this appeal with a call for compliance with allied accords on exchange rate stability . " Economic policy decisions made last year in Tokyo and at this year 's meetings of Group of Seven finance ministers in Paris and in Washington cannot be ignored or forgotten , " he said . " The commitments made at these meetings need to be translated into action . " Reuter 
<TEST	17755	grain	wheat>
has reallocated 50.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees from the previously announced undesignated line to provide additional guarantees for sales of feedgrains , oilseeds , and wheat to South Korea , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . The department said the action increases the feed grains line by 23 mln dlrs to 63 mln , the oilseed line by seven mln dlrs to 52 mln , and the wheat guarantee line by 20 mln to 165 mln dlrs . The undesignated line is reduced to zero . The commodities are for delivery during the current fiscal year ending this September 30 , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	17758	interest>
disbursed by the Commodity Credit Corporation ( CCC ) this month will carry a 6-7/8 pct interest rate , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . That is up from the May rate of 6-1/4 pct and reflects the interest rate charged the CCC by the U.S. Treasury in June , USDA noted . Reuter 
<TEST	17769	grain>
150,000 tonnes of barley to Saudi Arabia for delivery in the 1987/88 season , the U.S. Agriculture Deapartment said . The 1987/88 season for barley begins today . Reuter 
<TEST	17771	crude>
Texas/Oklahoma border has shut down the Basin Pipeline , a 24-inch pipeline that transports as much as 300,000 barrels per day of sweet and sour crudes from Texas to Cu shing , Okla , a Texaco Pipeline Co spokesman confirmed . " The water is rushing by so fast that we ca n't get any divers down to assess the damage but there is some possibility that the pipeline could be up by the end of the week , " a company source said . The pipeline transmits roughly two-thirds sour crude and one-third sweet crude oil from the Midland , Texas region . Texaco sources said that if the pipeline service is restored by Friday there would be little problem in restoring oil which has been lost to the flood . " But if the pipeline is down more than 10 days it will be difficult to make up without prorationing and we would not like to proration this pipeline , if we do n't have to . " The Basin Pipeline is jointly owned by Atlantic Richfield Corp <AR C> , Shell Oil Co , a subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> and Texaco Inc <TX> , which is the pipeline 's operator . Peter Beutel , analyst at Elders Futures Inc , said crude oil futures contracts on New York Mercantile Exchange rose to new highs this afternoon following news of the pipeline break . July crude futures of West Texas Intermediate traded up to 19.60 dlrs a barrel , a rise of more than 20 cts . Cash market prices also firmed on the news with sellers of WTI raising offers to 19.60 dlrs a barrel . Sour crudes , which would be most affected by the pipeline shutdown , however , were slow to react to the news with West Texas Sour and Alaska North Slope holding 50 cts to one dlr a barrel below WTI , respectively . Dan Stevens , manager of public and government affairs at Texaco , said the company hopes to fix the pipeline in five days but that will depend on when the water level of the Red River recedes . There is already evidence that the water level is dropping and it appears the rain has stopped in the area affecting the pipeline , Stevens said . He said the segment of the pipeline that was damaged was underground and at a distance from the Red River that flooded . The pipeline runs over the Red River and under the subsoil nearby , according to Stevens . He said some of this subsoil was apparently washed away . The potential for environmental damage is being downplayed at this time despite the volume of oil that runs through this line . Texaco 's Stevens said that aerial surveillance has not found any crude on the water in the river or in Lake Texoma , which is nearby . Reuter 
<TEST	17780	crude>
President Reagan is ready to use military force to protect Kuwait tankers in the Gulf , the United States is ill-prepared at home to deal with a new energy crisis . Synar , Democrat of Oklahoma , made his remarks in comments on a study by the General Accounting Office ( GAO ) on the U.S. participation in the 1985 test of the emergency oil sharing program of the International Energy Agency . The IEA , an alliance of 21 oil consuming countries , was formed after the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo to find ways to deal with any future oil cutoff . Synar said , " the president is prepared to take military action to protect Kuwaiti oil tankers but has been unwilling to take less dange rous , equally-important action to prepare our nation for the next energy crisis . " Reagan said the U.S. military would protect Kuwaiti oilers to assure the West of a continuing supply of Middle East oil , increasingly being threatened by the Iranian-Iraqi war . Synar , who asked for the GAO report after criticism of U.S. action in a previous IEA test , said the United States successfully advocated a test limited to training participants in oil sharing procedures and the system 's mechanical aspects . Reuter 
<TEST	17813	crude>
several small crude oil pipelines operating near the Texas/Oklahoma border last Friday as a precaution against damage from local flooding , according to Gary Zollinger , manager of operations . Total shut a 12-inch line that runs across the Ouachita River from Wynnewood to Ardmore with a capacity of 62,000 bpd as well as several smaller pipelines a few inches wide with capacities of several thousand bpd or less , Zollinger said . The Basin Pipeline , a major pipeline running 300,000 bpd , run by a consortium of other oil companies , was closed today . One other small pipeline that Total also closed has a capacity of 3,000 to 4,000 bpd and crosses the Red River in Fargo , Texas , Zollinger said . He said the closed pipelines run under river water and could be damaged as the flooded rivers erode the river banks and expose the piping . Zollinger said Total is waiting for the river waters to recede before they reactivate the pipelines . Reuter 
<TEST	17816	crude>
proposed oil pricing settlements totaling 680,150 dlrs with the operator and four working interest owners of A.D. LeBlanc No. 1 well , Vermillion Parish , La . Trigon Exploration Co. , Inc operated the well from June 1979 to January 1981 for D. Bryan Ferguson , C. William Rogers , Omni Drilling Partnership No 1978-2 and Entex Inc. DOE alleged Trigon caused overcharges of 624,208 dlrs by improperly classifying its oil as " newly discovered crud e , " a classification that allowed charging higher prices during a period of price controls . It said the proposed settlements would resolve disputes over possible violations by the five parties . DOE added that in agreeing to the settlements , the five did not admit any violations or non-compliance with its regulations . It said it would receive written comments on the settlements before making it final . reuter 
<TEST	17871	money-fx	trade>
have raised hopes that its 27-month decline may be nearly over , but most currency analysts refuse to commit themselves until after the June 12 release of U.S. trade data for April . " The trade data will be a deciding factor to see if the dollar has bottomed out , " said Jim McGroarty of Discount Corp. Since February 1985 , the dollar has nearly halved its value against the yen and the mark as part of an officially orchestrated campaign to make U.S. goods more competitive on world markets and redress gaping world trade imbalances . On April 27 , the dollar fell to a 40-year low of 137.25 yen but has enjoyed a modest recovery over the last few weeks , topping 145 yen today for the first time in nearly two months . Many economists now believe that the dollar has fallen far enough to ease the trade deficit 's drag on the U.S. economy . The U.S. trade gap narrowed to 13.6 billion dlrs in March from 15.1 billion in February and is expected to show continued improvement in April in volume , if not in real , terms . Keiichi Udagawa of Bank of Tokyo in New York said that if further progress is reported , the dollar would head back up towards 150 yen . " There is growing consensus that the dollar has bottomed out for the medium term , " added Tom Campbell of First National Bank of Chicago . Other factors supporting this bullish view were growing expectations that Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker would be reappointed for a third four-year term in August , Japan 's larger-than-expected economic stimulus package last week and more favorably technical chart signals , analysts said . The dollar was also aided by Japan 's moves to dampen speculative selling in Tokyo and by reports of active central bank intervention to support the dollar . The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said last week that the U.S. monetary authorities bought more than four billion dlrs during the February-April period the largest amount since the dollar crisis of the late 1970's . Discount Corp 's McGroarty described the Fed 's intervention volume as " impressive " . James O'Neill of Marine Midland Bank was not so positive , however " the dollar has not yet bottomed out . After the trade data are released , the dollar could fall towards 1.77 marks and 140 yen . " Similarly , Natsuo Okada of Sumitomo Bank in New York warned , " I do n't think the dollar has bottomed out yet . " Although the dollar could rise as high as 146.50 yen , Okada said market impatience about the painstakingly slow decline of the U.S. trade deficit may lead to renewed pressure . Currency analysts also warned about an unfavorable reaction to the seven-nation economic Summit on June 8 to 10 in Venice , which is likely to focus on the implementation of previous commitments rather than yield any fresh initiatives . President Reagan said today , " economic policy decisions made last year in Tokyo and at this year 's meetings of Group of Seven finance ministers in Paris and Washington cannot be ignored or forgotten . " " The commitments made at these meetings need to be translated into action , " he added in a speech , celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Marshall aid plan for Europe . Now that Tokyo has unveiled its fiscal stimulus package , analysts expected Bonn and the dollar/mark rate to bear the brunt of U.S. calls for further action . Marine Midland 's O'Neill said , " pressure will build up on Germany to take stimulative action like Japan . " Some Japanese bank dealers warned that although the dollar could hold above 145 yen for some months it could also come under attack again if it seems the latest economic package is not having much impact on Japan 's economy and its trade surplus . Reflecting a longer-term uncertainty , some some trust banks and Japanese insurers are keeping their short dollar positons hedged against exchange losses in their foreign portfolios , while some others have started covering those short positions , Japanese bank dealers said . Reuter 
<TEST	17875	crude>
oil imports to 4.29 dlrs a barrel from 3.29 dlrs , effective today , the energy ministry said . The duty , to raise funds for special energy projects , was adjusted after average crude import prices rose to 16.85 dlrs a barrel in April , from 16.65 dlrs in March and 13.08 dlrs in April 1986 , ministry officials said . A separate 24.5 pct import tax on crude oil is unchanged . REUTER 
<TEST	17877	money-fx>
Venezuelan banks and exchange houses to cease foreign exchange operations with brokers based outside the country , according to a copy of a central bank telex made available to Reuters . The measure , confirmed by a brokerage firm here , has effectively cut off all foreign participation in Venezuela 's volatile currency market . The telex , issued on May 19 , was signed by Carlos Hernandez Delfino , manager of the bank 's department of international operations . The telex said the restriction on business with foreign brokers is in line with an earlier measure prohibiting foreign exchange houses from selling dollars or other foreign currencies to anyone living outside Venezuela . In recent weeks the Venezuelan government has denied rumours that it intends to impose foreign exchange controls to prop up the weakening bolivar . But brokers said the central bank 's move is seen as a de facto currency control . " It is definitely a control in the sense that there 's no longer complete freedom to operate , " one broker here said . " Gradually they 're imposing restrictions and the direction is towards complete control , " the broker said . The broker , who requested anonymity , said virtually all his Venezuelan customers had stopped doing business with him since the central bank issued the telex and followed it up with telephone calls . He said that before the restriction was imposed the volume of his firm 's transactions with Venezuela was about 10 mln dlrs a day . " It was a frenetic market , it was really quite active , " he said . The broker said he saw no logical explanation for the prohibition because his firm only acted act as an intermediary between Venezuelan brokers , exchange houses and banks . " We were n't buying dollars from Venezuelans , that 's ridiculous , " he said . " They 've been on a rampage against foreigners . " The broker noted that two months ago Venezuela 's central bank quietly announced that banks doing foreign exchange business outside Venezuela would have to respect a new 200 pct reserve requirement . In February , the central bank also prohibited trading in bolivar futures , the broker said . " We used to have a forward market ," he said . " For a small currency it was miraculous . " He said the bolivar , which averaged 20.29 to the U.S. Dollar in 1986 , would continue to slip from its current range of 28.35 to 28.50 because the central bank was rapidly running out of foreign reserves to support the currency on the free market . REUTER 
<TEST	17883	interest>
Schlesinger said he saw no reason to lower interest rates now . With money supply growth showing no sign of slowing down in May and the dollar stable or even rising against the mark , Schlesinger told Reuters that he was not convinced that a further cut in interest rates was needed . The economy is picking up , after contracting by a seasonally adjusted 1/2 to one pct in the first quarter from the fourth , he added . " We may have an increase in gnp starting in the second quarter ," he said in an interview . Concerned by the first quarter downturn , the U.S. Has been pressing West Germany to pump up its economy and boost its imports , either through fiscal or monetary policy . Schlesinger said the contraction in the first quarter was mainly due to adverse weather conditions , just as occured in 1986 . Year-on-year growth was thus about two pct . He estimated that economic growth for the year as a whole would probably be between one and two pct . " It is not a question of monetary conditions if domestic demand does not grow strongly , " he said , noting that interest rates are at historically low levels and funds are ample . Schlesinger said he saw no signs that central bank money stock growth was slowing down from its recent year-on-year pace of 7-1/2 to eight pct , well above the Bundesbank 's three to six pct target . He said the target could still be achieved but much will depend on the direction of long-term capital flows . Heavy inflows , particularly in January around the time of the EMS revaluation , boosted domestic money supply . " There is still a certain hope that the net inflow of foreign money can be diminished or can even be a little bit reversed , " Schlesinger said . A major reason for the inflows was the market 's conviction that the mark was headed higher . "As we can see from the market , expectations for a further revaluation of the deutschemark have diminished , " Schlesinger said . The recent widening of interest rate differentials , the fact that the dollar has fallen sharply in a very short period and an improvement in real trade balances have all combined towards stabilizing the dollar , he said . Asked if central banks might act to prevent a sharp dollar rise , as the U.S. Did in March when the dollar rose above 1.87 marks , he said this would depend on the circumstances . At midday here , the dollar stood at 1.834 0/45 marks . " Central banks are always in contact about these fluctuations but I cannot give any answer how they would react , " Schelsinger said . "One has to look at how it ( the market ) is moving , " he said , adding , " It is not only our own case , it is also the American case . " He said that the West German export industry has been hit hard by the dollar 's sharp fall and would probably like to see some correction now . " But it would n't be good to have short-term fluctuations , " he said . " Let us wait and see . " " It is mainly the strength of the ( dollar ) fall in a very short period which was a little bit of a shock , than the level ( of rates ) as such , " Schlesinger said . The sharp rise of the mark , coupled with weak prices of such key commodities as oil , had a favourable impact on West German inflation down year . Although there have recently been signs of inflation picking up , he said that this was due to changes in key commodity prices . The underlying inflation rate this year would be unchanged , at about one to 1-1/2 pct , he said . Schlesinger said the problem of rapid money supply growth was longer term , in that the economy was building up the potential for a possible eventual resurgence of inflation . The above-target growth of money supply over the past 16 months had prompted some discussion of the usefulness of targets themselves , a matter which might be taken up at the mid-year meeting of the Bundesbank 's council , Schlesigner said . But he added " I do n't see any great pressure to go away from it . " REUTER 
<TEST	17886	crude	acq>
mean hardship for smaller firms and lead to their merging into bigger refining and marketing groups , industry sources said . They said the relaxation of controls was now under review by the Petroleum Council , an advisory panel to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry ( MITI ) . A spokesman for a major firm said , " Deregulation would bring about a reorganization . If it 's a by-product of freer competition , we have no choice but to accept it . " The Council is due to close its discussions on June 12 . The sources said the Council was likely to tell MITI it should end its 50 year-old protection of the industry . It should cut capacity to 3.8 mln barrels per day , about 75 pct of current capacity . Quotas should end for crude throughput and gasoline output , and oil tariffs should be abolished . They said deregulation was vital to promote more competition and efficiency , and most saw it as inevitable . " Deregulation is taking place everywhere . Now it 's our turn to see if we can survive cut-throat competition , " said a source at one major Japanese oil company . A spokesman for a smaller refiner said , " We 'll have a hard time surviving , but that 's something we must go through . " " In addition to our streamlining and efficiency programs for the oil division , we will exert efforts towards branching out further into other lines such as real estate and travel agencies , " he said . Larger companies are also streamlining . Nippon Oil Co Ltd which had the largest share of refined products sales in the Japanese market in fiscal 1985 , cut nine pct of its refining capacity in fiscal 1986 . Cosmo Oil Co Ltd , the third largest seller of oil products in 1985 , cut its workforce by some 20 pct last year , a spokesman for the company said . Between 1984 and 1986 , on the recommendation of the Council , 13 oil companies were integrated into 11 companies within seven refining and marketing groups to improve the efficiency of the industry . Oil industry sources said this structure was now likely to be streamlined further into five refining groups . " MITI means business . It will urge the major seven groups to merge into five to build up their muscles , " a source said . A MITI official told Reuters he did not rule out the possibility of further mergers within the Japanese oil industry in the event of the relaxation of oil controls . He declined to officially confirm or deny that the Petroleum Council had recommended deregulatory measures but said that in principal MITI would encourage a move towards deregulation . REUTER 
<TEST	17888	ship	crude>
maintain the security of the Gulf , Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said . But he told reporters Japan should not cut its lines of communication with Iran and Iraq because its policy was to take a broad political stance . Officials of the foreign ministry said Japan had maintained good relations with both Iran and Iraq , which have been at war since September 1980 . Last week Nakasone ruled out Japanese military or financial help to patrol the waters of the Gulf . About 60 pct of Japan 's crude oil passes through the waterway . President Reagan said yesterday the threat to oil routes in the Gulf from attacks by Iran and Iraq was high on the agenda for next week 's G-7 summit in Venice . Reagan has approved plans for the United States to step up its naval presence in the Gulf despite congressional expressions of concern and he has called on U.S. Allies to help maintain freedom of navigation . Japan 's constitution prevents its armed forces from being deployed overseas . Nakasone has said that Washington understands this problem . REUTER 
<TEST	17892	crude>
customers retroactive discounts from official prices of 30 to 38 cents per barrel on liftings made during February , March and April , the weekly newsletter Middle East Economic Survey ( MEES ) said . MEES said the price adjustments , arrived at through negotiations between the Omani oil ministry and companies concerned , are designed to compensate for the difference between market-related prices and the official price of 17.63 dlrs per barrel adopted by non-OPEC Oman since February . REUTER 
<TEST	17899	interest>
28-day securities repurchase agreement , offering banks liquidity aid at a minimum bid rate of 3.50 pct , a central bank spokesman said . Banks must make their bids by 1400 GMT today and funds allocated will be credited to accounts tomorrow . Banks must repurchase securities pledged on July 1 . REUTER 
<TEST	17913	acq	crude>
<Total Exploration Australia Pty Ltd> from <Total Holdings ( Australia ) Pty Ltd , a wholly-owned subsidiary of Total-Cie Francaise des Petroles <TPN.PA> . Total Exploration had interests ranging from 18.75 to 25 pct in four blocks in permit ATP259P in south-west Queensland , Santos said in a statement . The Santos group stakes will rise to between 52.5 and 70 pct of the four ATP259P blocks as a result of the purchase . The price was not disclosed . Santos said a number of oil and gas fields have been discovered in the Total Exploration areas and that it regards them as having very good prospects for further discoveries . Total 's reserves amount to 75 billion cubic feet of gas and 5.5 mln barrels of oil and condensate , it said . It said it will promote a vigorous exploration program in the areas for the rest of 1987 and in the future . The acquisition is the latest in a series by Santos as part of a program to expand from its origins in the South Australian Cooper Basin . REUTER 
<TEST	17915	money-fx>
the scourge of speculators , for bankers he is the man who has played a key role in shaping the world 's financial destiny for the last seven years , and for Germans he is the guardian of the mark . President of the powerful and independent West German central bank , the Bundesbank , Poehl is likely to have his contract renewed for another eight years when it expires at the end of this year , government officials say . ( Index of economic spotlights , see page ECRA ) But no official announcement has yet been made , raising eyebrows in West Germany 's business community . The ebullient Poehl spent seven years in Bonn in top ministerial posts under the Social Democrats , now in opposition , before he moved to the Bundesbank . There has been speculation that Chancellor Helmut Kohl would try to replace Poehl with a man closer to his own Christian Democrats . But officials noted that Poehl has worked closely and successfully with Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg since Kohl 's government took office in 1982 . Poehl , the most senior central banker apart from Paul Volcker of the United States , enjoys a strong international reputation which it would take a newcomer years to build up . Given these circumstances , Kohl will probably overlook Poehl 's past as an adviser to former Social Democrat Chancellor Willy Brandt , and top aide to Helmut Schmidt when he was Finance Minister , bankers said . It was Schmidt who , as Chancellor , appointed Poehl to his present job in 1980 . In recent months , with the mark 's strong rise against the dollar , Poehl has made exchange rates the central concern of the Bundesbank 's council , a highly conservative institution which has doggedly pursued monetary policies to prevent inflation catching hold . Older Germans can remember two bouts of galloping inflation this century . But with consumer prices falling for much of 1986 , and inflation negligible so far this year , Poehl thinks it is safe to relax the monetary reins a little and concentrate on the dangers to the German economy of a bloated exchange rate . " I am of the opinion that efforts to stabilise the dollar/mark rate have reached a high priority , also for the Bundesbank , because a further massive revaluation of the mark would endanger the economy in West Germany , " he told business journalists in Frankfurt recently . Ute Geipel , head of research at Citibank AG , says that Poehl 's reappointment would guarantee flexible monetary policy . " Poehl 's policy has always been a policy which does not focus so rigidly on domestic factors , but also on the external economy ," she said . An economist at a German bank , who declined to be identified , said " If Poehl is confirmed in his post , it will certainly be a plus for the pragmatic course which is not so rigidly oriented towards money supply . " One of Poehl 's great struggles recently has been to persuade the United States to stop " talking down " the dollar . For Poehl , the significance of the February Louvre Accord was that the United States agreed to join efforts to stabilise currencies . The Louvre Accord was greeted with scepticism by currency dealers who said they would soon put it to the test . But in fact the dollar has been relatively stable since the pact . " This is because the markets know or perhaps because they do n't know what the central banks can do , " Poehl says of intervention in currency markets which can quickly turn rates round , making a speculator 's position worthless . Poehl was born in 1929 and worked as a financial journalist in the 1960s before starting his ministerial career . A relaxed sun-tanned figure who enjoys cracking jokes over a glass of beer , he is hardly a stereotype central banker . He is also a keen sportsman who likes to watch football and play golf . Poehl says currency market intervention cannot substitute for correct economic policies if exchange rates are imbalanced . " But you can achieve an enormous effect with a small amount if you strike at the right moment , " he said . Bundesbank dealers are very professional and skilled . " They 've burnt the fingers of many people ," he said . And unlike the speculators , Poehl notes , the Bundesbank dealers usually make a profit . REUTER 
<TEST	17924	trade>
1986 trade surplus of 12.2 billion dirhams , narrowing from 30.2 billion in 1985 , the central bank 's latest bulletin shows . The central bank said the lower surplus was mainly due to the decline in the value of exports and re-exports to 37.2 billion dirhams from 54.2 billion in 1985 . This reflected the decline in oil prices last year and difficulties in marketing UAE oil , the central bank added . The surplus on the current account narrowed to 6.8 billion dirhams from 25.5 billion in 1985 . The overall balance showed a surplus of 4.8 billion after 2.6 billion in 1985 . REUTER 
<TEST	17925	ship>
emi rate 's backing for Iraq in the Gulf war , today rejected charges that fishing vessels seized recently by Iran were spy boats . " There are no bases of truth to the contents of the Iranian accusation on the nature of the operations of the vessels recently taken into custody by Iran . These vessels were out fishing , " the Foreign Ministry said in a statement . It said Iranian Charge d'Affaires Mohammad Baqeri was summoned by the Ministry yesterday to confer with Foreign Undersecretary Suleiman Majed al-Shaheen . The Iranian News Agency IRNA said on Sunday Iran had seized seven Kuwaiti speed boats and detained their crew , who confessed to spying for Iraq under the cover of fishing . It said the boats were intercepted in the Khur Abdullah waterway which separates Kuwait and Iraq 's Faw peninsula at the head of the Gulf , captured by Iran last year . The Kuwaiti response came as Iranian envoys toured Gulf Arab states saying responsibility for security and stability in the waterway was a regional matter . A U.S. Senate team was scheduled today to meet Kuwait 's Crown Prince and Prime Minister Sheikh Saad al-Abdulla al-Sabah and the defence and oil ministers . Today 's Foreign Ministry statement , carried by the Kuwait News Agency KUNA , said the recent detention of Kuwaiti fishing vessels by Iran was not the first . Tehran in the past had held back a number of vessels Kuwait had sought to release through diplomatic contacts , it said . " However , Kuwait is perplexed that this time the Iranian charges are accompanied by accusations that the vessels were undertaking espionage activitie s , " it said . Shaheen condemned the detentions and accusations , and asked Tehran to free all fishing boats and sailors held by Iran , the statement said . REUTER 
<TEST	17926	trade>
a 1986 trade surplus of 12.2 billion dirhams , narrowing from 30.2 billion in 1985 , the central bank 's latest bulletin shows . The central bank said the lower surplus was mainly due to the decline in the value of exports and reexports to 37.2 billion dirhams from 54.2 billion in 1985 . This reflected the decline in oil prices last year and difficulties in marketing UAE oil , the central bank added . The surplus on the current account narrowed to 6.8 billion dirhams from 25.5 billion in 1985 . The overall balance showed a surplus of 4.8 billion after 2.6 billion in 1985 . REUTER 
<TEST	17929	crude>
said Riyadh would not agree to a cut in oil prices and would not accept a " mad " increase that would drive consumers away . He told al-Riyadh newspaper , " Saudi Arabia follows a balanced petroleum policy . It does not approve of a decrease in prices from current levels and it also does not accept a mad increase that would drive consumers away and make them try and find alternative sources ( for energ y ) . " OPEC agreed last December to cut production after world prices hit new lows in 1986 . They agreed on a pricing system aimed to stabilise the market around 18 dlrs a barrel . OPEC is scheduled to meet in Vienna on June 25 , where it will review its current oil price and production policy . Saudi Arabia 's King Fahd said last month that he wanted oil prices to remain stable for the next two years . Saudi Arabia is the architect of the current pricing and production pact , which is backed by Kuwait and the UAE. The current pact set a production ceiling for first half 1987 of 15.8 mln bpd , and implemented fixed prices based on an 18 dlrs a barrel average . REUTER 
<TEST	17930	money-fx>
from today the overseas foreign exchange borrowings of local and foreign banks would be frozen at the level they reached at the end of May . The central bank 's statement added that the measure would be effective until the end of July . Bankers said the measure is designed to curb the inflow of foreign exchange and slow the growth of money supply . They added that the move , which sparked a record single day plunge of the local stock market , would limit their ability to lend foreign exchange to importers and exporters . Foreign exchange borrowings by local and foreign banks reached almost 12 billion U.S. Dlrs by the end of April , according to official statistics . Last week the central bank said that from today it would reduce its purchase of forward U.S. Dollars from banks to 40 pct from 90 pct of the value of the contract . It said the move was needed because of " distortions " in the foreign exchange market . Exporters , nervous about the appreciating Taiwan dollar , have been heavily selling forward U.S. Dollars on the interbank market to avoid exchange rate losses . Official figures show that forward U.S. Dollar sales in May reached a record of almost six billion U.S. Dlrs against 5.9 billion in April . All Taiwan 's foreign exchange earnings must be converted into local dollars , boosting money supply at a time of booming exports . Money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 51.86 pct in the year to end-April , raising fears of higher inflation . In March the central bank clamped tight restrictions on remittances of foreign exchange by companies and individuals to Taiwan in a move to curb inflows of speculative money . Economists and bankers estimate that the rising value of the local dollar has attracted about ten billion U.S. Dlrs of speculative money into Taiwan since early last year . It has flowed in mainly from Hong Kong , Japan and the U.S. . Since September 1985 the Taiwan dollar has risen by about 22 pct against the U.S. Dollar . Bankers said the government 's efforts to stabilise the foreign exchange market were a prelude to lifting all curbs on capital outflows . The central bank has said the controls will be dropped by the end of July or early August . Foreign exchange dealers said today 's announcement caused jitters in the market with foreign and local banks making heavy purchases of U.S. Dollars . They said the central bank sold about 30 mln U.S. Dlrs . Taiwan 's stock market plunged a record 75.53 points to close at 1,80 3.08 . REUTER 
<TEST	17943	interest>
agreed with Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita that a further cut in the discount rate was not appropriate at present , central bank sources said . They told Reuters the two discussed the subject at a routine meeting . Sumita told Nakasone he did not feel a rate cut was appropriate and Nakasone expressed his understanding , the sources said . Currency dealers have speculated that Japan and West Germany might come under pressure at next week 's Venice summit to cut interest rates to boost their economies . Nakasone , but not Sumita , is due to attend the summit . REUTER 
<TEST	17948	trade>
of trade retaliation from the European Community ( EC ) just as the trade situation between the two is improving , Japanese Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura said . " I am deeply concerned that the EC has moved to take a harsher line toward Japan despite this tangible improvement , " he said in a speech prepared for delivery at the opening of a new centre designed to improve understanding between the two sides . Last week , foreign ministers of the 12 EC nations agreed to impose tariffs on a range of unspecified Japanese electrical goods unless Tokyo opened its markets more to EC exports . Tamura referred to a 55 pct rise in Japanese imports of EC manufactured goods in the year ended March 31 . " I feel this is a strong step on the road to balance through expansion . " " While I do not deny the existence of the trade deficit between Japan and the EC , I believe it should be rectified not by reducing trade through import restrictions or export restraints , but by expanding the ( overall ) trade , " Tamura said . REUTER 
<TEST	17952	money-fx>
held firm in scattered trading despite a Central Bank decision to revive limited funding lines , dealers said . The Central Bank , which last Tuesday shut a daily aid window through which it lent funds of up to one year , reopened the facility for three month money , which was available at seven pct , they said . It offered one month funds at seven pct through swap facilities , dealers said . Today 's Central Bank action , combined with sales of dollars by some banks , helped ease a recent credit squeeze engineered by the monetary authority to stem a rush for the U.S. Currency arising from attractive U.S. Interest rates and Gulf tension , dealers said . However , as one dealer noted " The market is still unsettled . " Overnight funds , bid at 20 pct at the outset of business , traded up to 30 pct before easing as liquidity dragged offers down to 10 pct by the close . Tomorrow-next , for which buy/sell quotes started at 30 , 20 pct , ended at 14 , eight . Spot-next was indicated at 8-1/2 , seven after opening bids of 10 . Dealers quoted one-week at eight , seven against an early 9-1/2 , 7-1/2 . One month rates were at the same level after trade at eight then 8-1/2 . Dealers quoted three months at seven , 6-3/4 pct and six-month to one year funds at seven , six pct . They reported offshore offers of overnight at 10 , tomorrow-next at eight and one year at 6-1/2 pct towards the close . The Central Bank fixed its dinar exchange rate steady at 0.27933/67 to the dollar , against yesterday 's 0.27939/73 . The spot dinar was 0.27930/ 40 . REUTER 
<TEST	17955	grain	wheat	ship>
dwt , berthed at the port of Geelong in Victoria today to load 8,000 tonnes of urgently needed wheat for Fiji after Australian port unions partly lifted a trade embargo , shipping sources said . The wheat is expected to be loaded tomorrow , an Australian Wheat Board spokesman said . Reuter 
<TEST	17962	grain	wheat>
ban imposed by Australian labor unions as supporters of the country 's ousted prime minister Timoci Bavadra renewed pressure for his reinstatement with strikes and shop closures . The government welcomed a decision by the Australian Waterside W orkers ' Federation to lift its ban on shipments to Fiji , imposed in support of Bavadra , whose newly-elected government was overthrown in a military coup on May 14 . The ban had threatened food shortages of imported wheat , fresh vegetables and medicines . A direct result of the union decision would be the immediate shipment of 9,000 tons of rice and wheat from an Australian port , the government said . Shops in Nadi and Lautoka , center of the country 's sugar industry , closed again today in support of Bavadra . In Nadi two bomb threats forced evacuation of the Australian Westpac bank , but police said they turned out to be a ho ax . Bavadra has launched a campaign of civil disobedience to press for his reinstatement . Reuter 
<TEST	17963	crude>
said Riyadh would not agree to a cut in oil prices and would not accept a " mad " increase that would drive consumers away . He told al-Riyadh newspaper , " Saudi Arabia follows a balanced petroleum policy . It does not approve of a decrease in prices from current levels and it also does not accept a mad increase that would drive consumers away and make them try and find alternative sources ( for energ y ) . " OPEC agreed last December to cut production after world prices hit new lows in 1986 . They agreed on a pricing system aimed to stabilize the market around 18 dlrs a barrel . OPEC is scheduled to meet in Vienna on June 25 , where it will review its current oil price and production policy . Saudi Arabia 's King Fahd said last month that he wanted oil prices to remain stable for the next two years . Saudi Arabia is the architect of the current pricing and production pact , which is backed by Kuwait and the UAE. The current pact set a production ceiling for first half 1987 of 15.8 mln bpd , and implemented fixed prices based on an 18 dlrs a barrel average . REUTER 
<TEST	17966	interest>
Reserves in May to a total 34.7 billion has lifted hopes for a further cut in bank base lending rates after the June 11 general election , market analysts said . Sterling would have risen on the much better than expected number but for market nerves about the poll outcome , they said . But the weight of foreign currency and gold reserves now available to the authorities to support the pound should curb any market tendency to panic if U.K. Opinion polls show the ruling Conservative Party 's lead slipping , they added . " We have been intervening to a very much greater extent than we have done hitherto , " Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said at a news conference today , commenting on the news of the record reserves rise . He put the U.K. Intervention in the context of the Louvre accord between leading industrial nations to stabilise the dollar , partly through direct intervention on foreign exchanges . " We have been playing a very full part ourselves , " he said . But market analysts see the recent upward pressure on sterling , and consequent need for official sales to damp down its rise , more in the light of local factors . Steven Bell , chief economist at Morgan Grenfell Securities , said that corporate money has been flowing back into Britain amid hopes of another Conservative government , after fears last autumn of a Labour election victory sent it flooding out . U.K. Portfolio investment is also returning , while foreign buyers see U.K. Growth propects and high bond yields as attractive . They will be strong buyers of U.K. A ssets , notably equities , once the election is out of the way , Bell said . Analysts see this pressure as the main hope for lower interest rates , as the government is expected to try to reverse the loss of export competitiveness caused by a strong pound . Today , however , the pound hardly moved on the reserves news , dipping on its trade-weighted index against a basket of currencies from 73.1 pct of its 1975 value at 1000 GMT to 73.0 pct at 1100 GMT , half an hour after the figures were released . " The market does n't want to do anything because of the election , " commented an economist at a big U.S. Investment bank . Several dealers and analysts added that market forecasts of a rise in reserves of between one and three billion dlrs had overestimated the amount of pound sales that were likely to have been disguised by swap arrangements or transactions on the forward market . The market also seemed to have overestimated the amount of sterling the Bank of England bought at the end of May to smooth the pound 's sudden downturn , while some of the intervention reported in May probably occurred in April , they said . The key three months interbank money market rates eased about 1/8 point , reflecting cautious hopes that the downtrend in U.K. Interest rates will be revived following the reserves news , analysts said . Government bond prices initially firmed , but the market was muted as traders worried about the funding implications of another huge rise in reserves , they added . Morgan Grenfell 's Bell forecast a half point base rate cut from the current nine pct level soon after the election , so long as poll projections of another Conservative victory prove accurate , with another half point later . Justin Silverton , equity economist at Credit Suisse Buckmaster and Moore , said a full point reduction might be possible . " Sterling will be held down by interest rate cuts in future , rather than this active intervention , " he predicted . Kevin Boakes of Greenwell Montagu Gilt-Edged cautioned against over-optimistic forecasts , but agreed a half point cut looked likely . A cut before the election has been virtually ruled out . " The Bank ( of England ) is both worried about the political problem of cutting rates during an election campaign And has signalled some worry about broad money ( growth ) ," said Robin Marshall , chief U.K. Economist at Chase Manhattan Securities . He said the 10 billion dlrs increase in total reserves in the past seven months may foreshadow full U.K. Entry into the European Monetary System . But Bell said the authorities would like to see another 10 or 15 billion dlrs in the reserves before joining , if they did so . But , unlike many analysts , he doubted the U.K. Will go in . REUTER 
<TEST	17979	ship>
to defend the island 's territorial waters as India prepared to send a flotilla with relief supplies that Colombo says it does not want for the Tamils in the Jaffna peninsula . The sudden crisis between Sri Lanka and its giant neighbour deepened as Prime Minister Ranasinghe Premadasa told parliament " We have our territorial limits and nobody can be allowed to trespass there " President ( Junius ) Jayewardene has ordered the army , navy and air force to protect the island and its territorial waters , " Premadasa said to a round of applause from the house . In New Delhi an Indian spokesman said the plan to send a flotilla of 20 small unarmed boats with Red Cross supplies to Jaffna tomorrow would go ahead despite Colombo 's objections . The confrontation was the latest result of the long and bitter conflict between Sri Lanka 's Buddhist Sinhalese majority and the Hindu Tamil minority , which has strong ethnic and cultural links with India 's 50 mln Tamils . Reuter 
<TEST	17980	money-fx>
finance ministers and central bankers to stabilise currencies has worked well and needs no fundamental strengthening at the economic summit in Venice on June 8-10 , U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said . Previewing the summit , which he expected would not produce any major new economic initiatives , Lawson told reporters work remained to be done on improving the conditions for lasting world economic growth .? side measures to boost growth , he said . " I think it is possible that there may be scope for a further reduction in interest rates in Germany , " he added , but stressed that he had had no indication that such a move was likely . He made no mention of Japanese interest rates . Lawson said the U.S. Should embark on " a gradual reduction of its fiscal deficits over the next two or three years . " He said the February 22 Louvre accord had produced " satisfactory exchange rate stability , " in part thanks to heavy coordinated intervention of Group of Seven central banks , and he was " content " with sterling 's exchange rate . Pointing to the record 4.8 billion stg rise in U.K. May currency reserves announced today he said , " we have been playing a very full part ourselves We have been intervening to a very much greater extent than we had done hitherto . " Lawson said there was a risk that the Louvre agreement may falter if member states did not implement the macro-economic commitments underlying the accord . " Certainly it would be more difficult to maintain exchange rate stability if countries are seen not to implement their commitments in Paris In this respect . " He said the U.S. Budget deficit was " very important . " Noting the 6,000 billion yen economic package announced by Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone last week Lawson said , " what is really needed in Japan is an increase in merchandise imports . Supply side measures are critical . " " There is a specific range of consumer and agricultural goods where they have an extremely restrictive regime which is wholly unjustified , " he said . Lawson doubted that Tokyo 's partners would indulge in " Japan bashing " at the summit especially after the economic stimulation package and the announcement of Nakasone 's plans to increase Japanese development aid over the next three years . Japan 's more flexible stance on Tokyo stock exchange membership would also help deflect criticism , he said . He said he thought West Germany would instead come under pressure at the summit to adopt similar stimulation measures to jack up faltering economic growth . In this respect Lawson said he hoped Bonn would bring forward to January 1988 part of its agreed package of tax cuts scheduled for 1990 . He also called on Bonn to push ahead with the privatisation of German national industries . On debt , Lawson said he expected a three point British plan to alleviate the burden of the poorest sub-saharan countries to make progress in Venice . The plan , involving concessional rescheduling of sovereign debt in the Paris Club , was first proposed at the IMF and World Bank meetings in Washington earlier this year . Lawson said he would seek " to consolidate political backing for the plan at the Venice summit " and hoped the programme would be finalised at the Autumn meetings of the IMF and World Bank . He welcomed the recent moves by Citicorp and Chase Manhattan to increase sharply their Third World debt provisions . " First , it is a blow for realism . Second , because the market response has shown that banks have much less to fear from this sort of move than they felt before Citicorp, " he said . U.K. Banks should follow Bank of England recommendations , strengthening their balance sheets and making more provisions . " They have done it to some extent , they need to do it more , " Lawson said , adding it was up to the banks themselves to determine the appropriate size of provisions . He also said the dismantling of farm subsidies would be discussed at the summit . " There is a consensus , which we have to push furth e r . " REUTER 
<TEST	18012	money-fx>
chairman Alan Greenspan said there was evidence the dollar finally had bottomed out . In a White House briefing Greenspan was asked by reporters if he thought the dollar had bottomed out . " There certainly is evidence in that direction , " he replied . Reuter 
<TEST	18024	grain>
condition and harvesting is expected to begin shortly , the agricultural marketing information and research board Irvam said . First consignments were expected to be available around mid-J une . Excellent weather , characterised by alternating periods of sunshine and rain , has encouraged growth except in Sardinia , which was expected to lose a large part of its barley crop because of extreme dryness . Irvam said yields are expected higher than last year 's low levels if favourable weather continues in the next few weeks . Given an average yield of 3.5 tonnes per hectare , national production would be around two pct higher than in the previous season at just above 1.6 mln tonnes , it said . If yields reach the record 3.78 tonnes per hectare achieved in 1984 , production would be around 1.75 mln tonnes , an increase of 11 pct compared to 1986 . Reuter 
<TEST	18035	grain	corn>
to make approximately 2.8 billion dlrs of feedgrains deficiency payments immediately instead of in the late fall . A similar measure was decisively defeated on the Senate floor last week . The bill , which passed by a voice vote , would allow so-called Findley payments to be made immediately rather than late this year . Payments for 1987-90 feedgrains crops would not be changed . Because the bill would move 2.8 billion dlrs of spending into fiscal 1987 from fiscal 1988 , the measure is expected to meet stiff resistance in the full House . Reuter 
<TEST	18050	money-fx>
the Bank of England has carried out recently is clear proof of Britain 's determination to stabilise exchange rates as agreed between the Group of Seven industrialised countries in Paris in February , Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said . Saying he was " content " with sterling 's current value , Lawson told reporters he wanted " to maintain the exchange rate stability we have all signed up for . " He declined to say if he favoured a rise or a fall from present sterling levels . May currency reserves , out today , showed a record 4.8 billion stg rise , pointing to massive currency intervention . In April , reserves rose a hefty 2.9 billion stg . Pointing to the reserves data , Lawson said , " We have been playing a very full part ourselves " in meeting our commitments toward exchange rate stability as agreed in Paris . " We wish to see it ( stability ) continuing , " he added . Asked which techniques were available to preserve stability , Lawson said both central bank intervention and interest rate changes could be used to tackle " the market pressures there are from time to time . " " Interest rate stability is not an objective in that sense ...Rates have to be moved up and down at times , " he added . Lawson said he expected intervention to be " sterilised " by draining excess sterling liquidity from the market through new issues of government securities and foreign currency sales , when the market allowed . This would limit the inflationary impact of intervention , he said . " Sterilisation will be dictated by market tactics ...Not necessarily in the month in which intervention occurs , " Lawson said . " I am confident that we can sterilise on this scale . " REUTER 
<TEST	18051	money-fx	interest>
intervene in the government securities market to add or drain reserves at its usual intervention time this morning , economists said . With the Federal funds rate trading comfortably at 6-9/16 pct , down from yesterday 's 6.74 pct average , economists said the Fed did not need to take reserve management action today . Reuter 
<TEST	18061	trade>
dlrs in April from 275 mln in March and 273 mln in April 1986 , the State Statistics Institute said . The deficit for the first quarter of 1987 widened to 1.23 billion dlrs from 1.20 billion a year earlier . April exports totalled 702 mln dlrs compared with imports of 1.08 billion . Exports in the first four months were worth 2.69 billion dlrs compared with imports of 3.92 billion . REUTER 
<TEST	18066	crude>
expects oil prices to rise significantly by the year 2000 , probably to around 33 dlrs a barrel in current dollars . " I do anticipate a significant increase ( by 2000 ) . Thirty-three dlrs a barrel is not unreasonable , " Hodel told the Senate Energy Committee . Hodel said the loss of some domestic oil production through the shutdown of stripper ( 10 barrels a day or less ) wells because of low prices was probably permanent . He said he was also concerned by the decline in domestic oil exploration . Hodel urged Congress to approve oil exploration in section 1002 of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska . He said geologic condtions in the area were favorable for the discovery of oil fields equal to those in nearby Prudhoe Bay . Reuter 
<TEST	18085	crude>
18 and 20 dlrs a barrel will remain stable over the next couple of years , rising only one to two dlrs a barrel per annum to keep up with inflation , OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman said . Lu kman , who was speaking during talks with Swedish trade officials , said the stable price depended upon output restraint by both OPEC and non-OPEC oil producers , Swedish government officials said . They said Lu kman , who is also Nigerian oil minister , made the remarks whilst talking about the connection between Third World debt and industrialised nations . Crude oil output controls did not necessarily mean higher energy bills for the world 's industrial nations , Lukman said . Although very low oil prices , such as those seen around the beginning of the year , may appear beneficial for the industrial countries that depend on imported energy , they would only lead to wastage and overdependence on the fuel in the long term , he said . This in turn would bring a swing back to extremely high prices , he added . Sweden , heavily dependent on imported oil , suffered a major crisis in the mid-1970s , when oil prices spir alled . REUTER 
<TEST	18086	interest	money-fx>
credit policies when its central bank council meets on Thursday for its last session before the Venice summit , banking economists and money market dealers said . The Bundesbank steered money market rates lower last month by cutting the rate on its security repurchase pacts , and is unlikely to cap this move with a cut in leading interest rates in the near future , they said . The council will meet in Saarbruecken , and the meeting will be followed by a news conference at around 1030 GMT. But Bundesbank officials noted that a news conference was usually called when the council meets outside Frankfurt , and did not necessarily herald any policy moves . Bundesbank Vice-President Helmut Schlesinger said today there was no reason to cut interest rates because money supply growth had shown no signs of slowing in May and the dollar was stable against the mark . Schlesinger told Reuters in Tokyo , where the Bundesbank has opened a representative office , that the West German economy was now picking up after contracting by a seasonally adjusted 1/2 to one pct in the first quarter . Money market dealers said call money was likely to hold in a 3.50/70 pct range for most of this month , after the Bundesbank switched last month to tenders by interest rate at a minimum bid rate of 3.50 pct , allocating funds at 3.55 pct . " They have set this signal and indicated they could maybe lower market rates even further , but not with the discount or Lombard , " Winfried Hutmann , chief economist of Schroeder , Munchmeyer , Hengst Investment GmbH said . Werner Chrobok , managing partner at Bethmann Bank , said German rates were among the lowest in industrial countries and around historical lows for West Germany . A further cut in rates would have little impact on the economy as banks are in any case reporting slack credit demand , with companies swimming in liquidity , Chrobok said . The Bundesbank would therefore be reluctant to make a move on interest rates , when this would be better held in reserve . " The Bundesbank is frightened of using up its powder , " he said . A cut in the discount or Lombard rates , to bring them in line with the new structure of money market rates since last month , would have little practical significance , dealers said . The Bundesbank could therefore act on these if it wanted a diplomatic gesture before next week 's Venice summit . But Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl has often made it clear in the past he opposes such gestures as mere " eyewash . " Economists said it was really up to the Bonn government to cut taxes , rather than for the Bundesbank to ease monetary policy , to meet pressure on West Germany at the Venice summit . But with Bonn struggling to finance already announced tax cuts and falling tax revenue widening the federal budget deficit , it is hard to see how Bonn could cut taxes further . " The Bonn government will be in a very weak position in Venice because they ca n't risk increasing the deficit further , " said Schroeder , Muenchmeyer , Hengst 's Hutmann . Bethmann 's Chrobok said if anything is to happen before Venice , it must be in fiscal rather than monetary policy . " But I do n't expect any convincing measures , " he said . Money market dealers noted that call money continued to normalize today , falling to 3.60/70 pct from 3.75/85 yesterday and as much as five pct on Friday when it was pushed up by month-end distortions . Call money could come under upwards pressure later this month because of a major round of tax payments by banks on behalf of customers , starting in the week beginning June 15 . Two public holidays that week could also distort the market . Dealers said they expected the Bundesbank to allocate funds tomorrow in the latest repurchase pact at an unchanged 3.55 pct , after setting an unchanged minimum bid rate of 3.50 pct , and to fully replace the 5.5 billion marks in an outgoing pact . But dealers said it was possible the Bundesbank would allocate funds at 3.6 pct rather than 3.55 . That would not represent a tightening of policy , however . Because the Bundesbank scales down bids which it allocates at the minimum accepted rate , some banks may try to get a full allocation by bidding heavily at 3.6 pct , dealers said . On another issue , Poehl has said the Bundesbank is likely to lift restrictions on private use of the European Currency Unit ( ECU ) at one of its meetings soon . Saarbruecken would be a suitable place for an announcement on this gesture to European unity , as it is the capital of the Saarland bordering France , and was twice under French occupation this century . But dealers said an ECU announcement was unlikely to come this week , as a number of technical and legal matters had still to be resolved , for instance how German ECU accounts would be treated for minimum reserve purposes . REUTER 
<TEST	18104	trade>
review of Japanese semiconductor trading practices but has not yet decided whether trade sanctions levied against Japan last April should be lifted , U.S. officials said . They said the president 's Economic Policy Council looked at Japan 's adherence to the 1986 U.S.-Japanese semiconductor pact yesterday and that an announcement may be made shortly . But there was no hint what the announcement might be . Officials have said the 100 pct tariffs on 300 mln dlrs of Japanese exports could be modified if Japan was found to be honoring a portion of its semiconductor pact . But they also noted that the White House has said it was unlikely the tariffs would be lifted before the meeting of the world 's seven major economic powers in Venice on June 8-10 . The officials added that while the curbs complicated U.S.-Japanese economic cooperation , they did serve to blunt Congressional criticism that the Reagan Administrtation was not taking tough actions to reduce he U.S. trade deficit . Reagan imposed the sanctions on April 17 in retaliation for Japan 's failure to honor commitments to end dumping semiconductors in world markets at less than production costs and to open its own market to U.S. goods . The sanctions were levied on certain Japanese television sets , personal computers and hand-held power tools . Reagan , in imposing the curbs , said they would be lifted as soon as there was evidence of a pattern that Japan was adhering to the pact . reuter 
<TEST	18108	crude>
expects oil prices to rise significantly by the year 2000 , probably to around 33 dlrs a barrel in current dollars . " I do anticipate a significant increase ( by 2000 ) . Thirty-three dlrs a barrel is not unreasonable , " Hodel told the Senate Energy Committee . Hodel said the loss of some domestic oil production through the shutdown of stripper ( 10 barrels a day or less ) wells because of low prices was probably permanent . He said he was also concerned by the decline in domestic oil exploration . Hodel urged Congress to approve oil exploration in section 1002 of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska . He said geologic condtions in the area were favorable for the discovery of oil fields equal to those in nearby Prudhoe Bay . " The area could contain potentially recoverable oil resources of more than 9.2 billion barrels , an amount nearly equal to the Prudhoe Bay oil field , which currently provides almost one-fifth of U.S. domestic production , " Hodel said . He said production from the new section could begin about the time Prudhoe Bay production begins to decline in 2000 without endangering caribou or other wildlife in the area . Reuter 
<TEST	18128	ship>
by a tightening in available nearby freight space needed to move raw sugar to various destinations , notably from Thailand , traders said . This has resulted in a hardening of freight rates in those areas . These are now being quoted between 12.5 and 17.5 dlrs a tonne per day , depending on shipment and destination , against recent fixings below 12 dlrs a tonne . Charterers are considering combining contracted shipments because of inadequate space , shipping sources said , noting 13 raws cargoes are awaiting shipment from various ports . A cargo of Thai raw sugar was reported traded at basis July New York futures less 25 points for June/July 15 shipment , traders said . But others said this was old business . Reuter 
<TEST	18136	money-fx>
BBC AG Brown Boveri und Cie and a former Swiss National Bank president , urged the National Bank to declare its intent of achieving a rising rate for the mark against the Swiss franc . In a speech to shareholders , Leutwiler said , " A gradually rising rate for the mark in relation to the franc would be desirable from the standpoint of industrial exports and with regard to sustaining Swiss industry . " " Simply an appropriate declaration of intent by our bank of issue ( Swiss National Bank ) could have a positive effect , " he said . Leutwiler , who served 10 years as head of the Swiss central bank , said such a step would not contradict the National Bank 's target of monetary stability . " Bringing the franc close to the mark would , of course , have to be done step by step under the watchful eye of monetary policy , " he told shareholders . " Realistically there is in fact no persuasive reason why the German currency is quoted almost 20 pct lower than the Swiss . " A National Bank spokesman said the relation of the mark and Swiss franc was an example of stable currency parities over a long period of time . The spokesman said exchange rates were made by the market , not the central bank , and it would be impossible to influence individual parities separately . Leutwiler said the Swiss National Bank could not support the value of the dollar , even in conjunction with other central banks , without putting monetary stability in jeopardy . " I would be the last to recommend that . The key to a stronger dollar lies in the United States itself , " Leutwiler said . REUTER 
<TEST	18142	money-fx	interest>
third term as Federal Reserve Chairman and the nomination of Alan Greenspan to replace him have revived deep concerns about the U.S. ' ability to prevent a further dollar decline and stem rising inflation , financial market analysts said . Although Greenspan is known as a committed anti-inflation fighter in the Volcker mould , doubts are already surfacing in the U.S. financial markets as to whether he has enough political clout and monetary experience to wage a tough campaign against inflation over the next year or two . " The critical issue is how ( Greenspan ) will deal with inflation , " said Stephen Axilrod , Vice Chairman of Nikko Securities Co International Inc and former staff director for monetary and financial policy at the Fed . " A lot of questions have been raised by Vol cker 's departure . Until Greenspan answers them , the markets will remain nervous , " added Stephen Slifer , money market economist at Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc. This morning 's announcement sent the dollar into a tailspin , which was halted only by concerted central bank intervention in the open currency market . Reuter 
<TEST	18146	crude>
Petroleum Institute 's weekly report on oil inventories to show a slight build in U.S. stocks of gasoline for the week ended May 29 , oil traders and analysts said . While the consensus is for an increase , a few would not rule out the possibility of an decline . Traders said that barring any surprises in tonight 's report , they expect the report to be neutral to bearish for oil prices . Heating oil stocks are also likely to build and runs to be steady to slightly higher , which could add pressure on oil prices , the analysts said . Crude oil was seen likely to build assuming imports continue at relatively high levels . Analysts expect gasoline stocks to rise 500,000 to two mln barrels above the 234 mln reported for May 22 . Peter Beutel , oil analyst with Elders Futures inc , who looks for a build said , " We have had five weeks of gasoline demand at 7.3 mln bpd or more and it is likely to taper off to between 6.7-7.0 mln bpd , which should make stocks build . Demand would have to stay above 7.0 mln bpd to have a draw , " he added . Rising demand is why oil traders and analysts expect a draw in stocks of about of about one mln barrels . The U.S. Energy Information Administration in its latest report for the four weeks ending may 22 said that gasoline demand was up 4.4 pct to 7.3 mln bpd from the previous year . But analysts said hopes of reduced stocks is likely to founder on increased runs in refineries , which could be up 0.3 pct above May 22 's 81.2 pct capacity operated . Such an increase would raise runs about 100,000 bpd and add to U.S. stocks . But some analysts said that refiners may have held refinery runs . Heating oil stocks were also expected to build between 700,000 barrels and one mln from the 96 mln barrel level reported last week , but a rise in distillate stocks was discounted as having a market impact at this time . " A build is seasonal now and not out of line with last year , " one futures analyst said . Analysts said they also expect crude oil stocks to build between 1.5 mln barrels and three mln from the 325 mln barrels reported by API for the week of may 22 . The consensus appears for about two mln barrels to be added to the nation 's inventory . Reuter 
<TEST	18148	trade>
the 6,000 billion yen economic package announced by Tokyo last week went further than the U.S. Had expected . But he said the U.S. Would not lift the selective economic sanctions it imposed on Japanese imports in April until Tokyo changed its sales policies concerning computer microchips . Speaking in a televised news conference linking several European capitals , Shultz said it was heartening that the Japanese had confronted the problem of stimulating domestic and global demand . " There is an even greater amount of stimulus than was originally thought , " said Shultz , speaking from Washington . " It is a lot more than nothing . It is more than was talked about when ( Prime Minister Yasuhiro ) Nakasone was here . " It involves a major reduction in tax rates and we believe that getting the tax burden down is one way of stimulating the economy ," he added . But asked by Japanese reporters , also linked into the news conference , whether the positive reaction meant the U.S. Might decide at next week 's Venice summit to lift its sanctions on some Japanese electronic goods , Shultz replied " These sanctions were undertaken on the basis of an agreement that had been reached between the United States and Japan on various sale practices and prices relating to the chip market . " They will be lifted as the facts of change by Japan to the agreement that it made become evident . " He said U.S. Officials had only been able to monitor the situation for a month and that it was impossible to determine a trend on only one month 's data . The U.S. Imposed 100 pct import duties on personal computers , colour televisions and power tools , alleging that Japan had violated last September 's bilateral agreement by selling computer chips at below fair market value . Shultz said West Germany and other nations would also do well to look at what they could do to stimulate demand . Asked whether the U.S. Could reasonably ask its allies to take action to stimulate the world economy without a bold American initiative to reduce the size of the federal budget deficit , Shultz said moves were already underway to tackle the problem . He said by the end of the current fiscal year the deficit would probably be reduced by around 35 billion dlrs against last year , and that the budget being worked on this year would contain a major reduction . REUTER 
<TEST	18160	ship>
today that a boost in allied forces in the Mideast Gulf was not vital to protect shipping against attack but that possible allied contributions should be examined . Asked if he saw the need for a greater military presence by the allies in the gulf , Shultz told reporters , " Not necessar ily , particularly , so . " But he said an adequate force was needed to deter attack and noted that the British and the French , as well as the United States , maintained naval contingents there . " We have to look at things that others might do , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	18185	interest	money-fx>
Salomon Brothers Inc , said the nomination of economist Alan Greenspan to replace Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker is bearish in the near term for the fixed income and currency markets . " The basic direction of interest rates is not changed . The fundamental direction of interest rates continues to be up ward , interrupted by intermittent rallie s , " Kaufman said in a statement . He said the implication for equity markets in neutral to bullish . Kaufman said , " Unlike Paul Volcker , who entered the office of the Federal Reserve chairman with strong credibility both domestically and internationally , Mr Greenspan will have to demonstrate both his competence and policy independence before he can gain full confidence of the financial markets . " Greenspan is most knowledgeable on the behavior of the U.S. economy , while his professional skills in the international area are much more limited , Kaufman noted . " C onsequently , although he is well known abroad , his views on issues such as the Less Developed Country Debt may initially carry less weight than have those of Mr Volcker . " Reuter 
<TEST	18186	crude>
pipeline , shutdown because of flood damage , said it may be several days before repairs are made and the system is functioning again . Dan Stevens , manager of public and government affairs at Texaco Inc <TX> , operator of the pipeline through its subsidiary Texaco Pipeline Co , said the company hopes repairs will begin in about five days and expects it to take several more days to complete . " At this point we are lining up what we know we need , to get the job done , " Stevens said , adding that the timing for repairs will depend on the damage to the pipeline which is difficult to assess because of flooding on the Red River . The pipeline was shipping roughly 225,000 barrels of crude oil per day , or about 55 pct of its capacity during the 30 days preceding its shutdown on Saturday , Stevens said . The pipeline was shut down from Cu shing , Okla , to Witchita Falls , Kan , on Saturday due to an undetermined leak at the Red River crossing , near the Oklahoma/Texas border , because of severe rains , a spokesman for Texaco said . Stevens said it was reasonable to suggest the pipeline could operate at full capacity when it reopens in order to make up for the shortfull but cautioned they will talk with customers to determine their requirements . Oil analysts and traders said they were not sure if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S. oil prices . Monday , after Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had been closed , West Texas Intermediate crude in the spot market and on New York Mercantile Exchange 's energy futures complex rose 20 cts a barrel . Stevens said it was reasonable to suggest the pipeline could operate at full capacity when it reopens in order to make up for the shortfull but cautioned they will talk with customers to determine their requirements . Oil analysts and traders said they were not sure if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S. oil prices . Monday , after Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had been closed , West Texas Intermediate crude in the spot market and on New York Mercantile Exchange 's energy futures complex rose 20 cts a barrel . Reuter 
<TEST	18213	ship	crude>
Morton Hyman said if oil production by OPEC rises during the second half of 1987 , freight rates for tankers should rise accordingly . Hyman , delivering a speech at the annual shareholders meeting , said international tanker markets were generally weak throughout the first quarter , but since the end of March OPEC oil production has picked up . The result has been a modest improvement in tanker rates . Overseas said 73 pct of its fleet handles liquid cargo . He said tanker requirements decreased in September 1986 as OPEC production quotas dropped and levels of oil stocks rose . For the first quarter 1987 , the company reported net income of 10.3 mln dlrs , or 40 cts per share , compared to 9.3 mln dlrs , or 36 cts per share , for the comparable quarter a year ago . The company reported net income for 1986 of 37.3 mln dlrs , or 1.45 dlrs per share . " The improvement in the company 's 1986 results , after four years of declining earnings , reflects a sharp , albeit temporary , rise in freight rates in the international tanker markets last summer , " Hyman said . He said the Alaskan oil trade continues to be the principal source of employment for its U.S. flag tanker fleet , which represents approximately 15 pct of the company 's tonnage . Overseas owns and operates 67 vessels . Reuter 
<TEST	18231	ship>
Gulf are under orders to protect only American flag vessels and occasional U.S. arms deliveries on other ships to " non-belligerent " states in the area , the Pentagon said today . " No one has ever stated or supported a policy of protecting all shipping in those waters , " Pentagon spokesman Bob Sims said as the Reagan Administration drew up plans to increase the protective U.S. military presence in the gulf . Sims denied published reports that U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger sought air cover to protect all neutral shipping in the western gulf from attacks by Iran and Iraq. "As we have said repeatedly , only American flag vessels are under our protection with the exception , on a limited case-by-case basis , of ships carrying our Foreign Military Sales equipment to friendly , non-belligerent states in the region , " Sims said . U.S. warships in the gulf two weeks ago protected a Kuwaiti ship which sailed to Bahrain with U.S. arms for Bahrain and Kuwait . But Sims said Washington had received assurances that the the arms would not be used elsewhere . He said Kuwait , which is turning 11 oil tankers over to U.S. firms to fly the American flag and be protected by the U.S. warships , is not considered a belligerent despite Iranian charges that Kuwait is supporting Iraq in the gulf war . Kuwaiti tankers have come under repeated Iranian attack . Sims refused to say how the United States will beef up its seven-ship Middle East Task Force in the gulf to protect the 11 Kuaiti tankers . But Pentagon officials said that additional ships and air cover are under consideration . Reuter 
<TEST	18234	crude>
Asamera Oil ( U.S. ) Inc concluded the 25.25 mln U.S. dlr sale of its Denver refinery to Total Petroleum North America Ltd. In addition , Total is purchasing crude oil and refined product inventories at market value , Asamera said . Reuter 
<TEST	18257	trade>
nondiscriminatory treatment for Romanian exports to the United States in the face of congressional opposition because of the Bucharest government 's record on human rights . A White House statement said Reagan 's decision to press for continuation of so-called Most Favored Nation ( MFN ) status for Romania had been " exceptionally difficult " and came after " all options were seriously considered . " But the statement said that despite concerns about human rights abuses by the Bucharest government , the president had decided that should be continued because it helped stimulate emigration from Romania and gave the United States influence on human rights practices there . The statement was issued as Reagan sent to Congress requests for one-year extensions of MFN for Romania , Hungary and China . The House of Representatives has attached to a trade bill legislation that would temporarily deny MFN for Romania pending certification by Reagan that the country had made progress on human rights . There is no controversy over continuation of MFN for Hungary and China . Reuter 
<TEST	18263	grain>
has accepted bids for export bouses to cover sales of 150,000 tonnes of U.S. barley to Saudi Arabia , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . The CCC accepted three bonus offers from one exporter which averaged 40.88 dlrs per tonne , it said . The barley is for delivery August 15- November 30 in three shiments of 50,000 tonnes each . The bonus awards were made to Louis Dreyfus Corporation and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks . An additional 350,000 tonnes of U.S. barley are still available to Saudi Arabia under the Export Enhancement Program initiative annnounced on May 15 , 1987 , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	18271	ship>
passage of legislation requiring the Reagan administration to provide Congress with a report on its Mideast Gulf policy , but a last-minute revolt by an alliance of liberals and conservatives left the bill 's fate in doubt . The legislation was written in the wake of the May 17th Iraqi missile attack on the U.S. frigate Stark in the Gulf , which killed 37 Americans , and President Reagan 's decision to protect 11 Kuwaiti oil tankers by putting them under U.S. flags effectively making them American ships . Since the administration made known its reflagging plans , congressional leaders complained they had not been consulted , and some charged the policy could lead the United States into the 6 1/2-year-old war between Iran and Iraq. The House was to vote today on a bill supported by the Democratic and Republican congressional leadership and the administration which demanded a report within seven days on plans to meet the security needs of U.S. forces in the gulf . The resolution was expected to pass without controversy today in the House Foreign Affairs Committee before the full House was to take up the bill . But in a surprise move , liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans on the committee joined in an unusual alliance to oppose the resolution . Liberal Democrats said a lack of any restrictions in the bill implied consent to Reagan 's policies . Reuter 
<TEST	18275	grain	wheat>
reduction program may be eligible for deficiency payments on 92 pct of their enrolled acreage even though none of it is planted with wheat or other program crops , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . The department said the provision of the Farm Disaster Assistance Act will be available to all eligible winter wheat producers , producers of other types of wheat who were prevented from planting their 1987 wheat crop because of a 1986 natural disaster , and all producers who operate farms with program crop acreage bases subject to flooding on 50 pct of such crop 's permitted acreage . A producer who did not enroll in the 1987 acreage reduction program may become eligible by signing-up no later than July 15 . Producers will be informed by the local offices when applications are being accepted , it said . The department said producers of wheat other than winter wheat may use the 0/92 option if they were preventedf from planting their intended acreage with wheat for harvest in 1987 because of any natural disasters which occured in 1986 or if the farm is located in a county approved by Farmers Home Administration for emergency loans for such disasters that occurred in 1986 . Reuter 
<TEST	18297	grain	wheat>
a trial batch of bread baked from 300 lbs of U.S. wheat flour last February , the Senegalese appear ready to take delivery of a first tranche of 10,500 tonnes of mixed U.S. wheat , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . In its report on U.S. Export Markets for U.S. Grain , the department noted Senegal had bought 100,000 tonnes of wheat under the Export Enhancement Program last November , but local opposition from millers , accustomed to French wheat , has been delaying deliveries . As a result there were a series of baking seminars as well as the trial batch , in an effort to satisfy local flour millers and convince key officials of the qualities of U.S. wheat . The department said if deliveries of U.S. wheat to Senegal remain on track , the U.S. could dominate a wheat market that had been expected to import 140,000 tonnes of mostly French wheat during the 1987/88 ( July-June ) season . Reuter 
<TEST	18302	trade>
protection , the U.S. textile industry could become competitive with the most modern foreign producers , analysts from two congressional agencies said today . The Office of Technology Assessment , a nonpartisan arm of Congress told a House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing there was still concern for the future of parts of the U.S. textile and apparel industry , but there was more reason for optimism than a few years ago . " While textile producers are making significant investments , they could do more , " OTA analyst Henry Kelly said . The Congressional Budget Office ( CBO ) , the nonpartisan budget analysis arm of Congress , said federal loans or loan guarantees would be preferable options for Congress rather than increased trade protection which could lead to foreign retaliation . CBO analyst Edward Gramlich said past trade protections , first imposed in the 1950 's have had only a small benefit for profits and investments of domestic firms . Trade Subcommittee chairman , Rep. Sam Gibbons , said the agencies analyses seemed to agree with his opinion against congressional approval of protectionist textile quota legislation aimed mainly at Western Europe , Japan and other Asian textile producing countries . President Reagan last year vetoed a textile protection bill but it was reintroduced in this session of Congress and is expected to be voted on in the House this year . However , approval this year is in doubt because passage of a major trade bill without specific protections for textiles showed a weakening of support for the legislation . Most U.S. producers have fallen behind other foreign producers in the use of modern textile and apparel production equipment and net imports are growing faster than the domestic markets , Kelly said . He added that private investment in the textile and clothing industry in 1983 of 0.5 pct was less than one-seventh the average manufacturing investment of 3.9 pct . Despite existing import quotas and tariffs , imports of textiles grew 26 pct in 1986 and imports of apparel grew 14 pct while U.S. production rose only 1.9 pct . " The traditional industry seems destined to be replaced by new technology , imports , or some combination of both . While the industry may not be able to compete in all domestic markets that it enjoyed twenty years ago , the results of our research indicate that portions of the domestic market can be recovered , and that exports can be expanded , " Kelly said . Reuter 
<TEST	18306	grain>
development across the province , with the northwest crop producing region receiving the most precipitation , according to the Manitoba Agriculture weekly crop report . The rains replenished formerly low soil moisture reserves , with reserves in all areas now rated good , the report said . Plantings were virtually complete across the province and germination was well advanced . However , some fields still showed spotty stands . Cereal crops in the southwest were 90 pct germinated , with some fields already in the subsequent tillering stage , it said . Oilseeds in the northwest region were about 80 pct emerged in many areas , with other regions 50 to 70 pct emerged . Reuter 
<TEST	18325	acq	crude>
Canada Petroleum Co Ltd said its proposed 5.22-billion Canadian-dlr acquisition of Dome Petroleum Ltd will benefit Canada just like the foreign investment that made possible commercial development of Alberta 's oilsands . Amoco Canada president T. Don Stacy told an oilsands conference that " Amoco Canada has presented the solution to the Dome problem , and we 're investing our confidence , dollars and determination to make that solution work . " The Amoco buyout of debt-burdened Dome has angered Canadian nationalists , who want a Canadian buyer for Dome . Stacy described Amoco Canada 's previously reported share offer proposal as a chance to increase Canadian ownership of the country 's oil and gas industry , now at about 50 pct . He reiterated that Amoco planned virtually no layoffs of Dome employees . He also reaffirmed that Amoco would reinvest in Amoco Canada-Dome properties all available cash flow for five years after the acquisition . Reuter 
<TEST	18328	ship>
approved a bill that requires the Reagan administration to provide Congress with a report on its Gulf policy but does not place any restrictions on its actions . The bill passed 305-102 winning a necessary two-thirds of those voting despite a last-minute revolt by an alliance of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans who sought to defeat it as a signal that a growing number of legislators oppose President Reagan 's policies in the region . The legislation was passed in the wake of the May 17th Iraqi missile attack on the U.S. frigate Stark in the Gulf , which killed 37 Americans , and Reagan 's decision to protect 11 Kuwaiti oil tankers by putting them under U.S. flags effectively making them American ships . The legislation supported by Congress ' Democratic and Republican leadership as well as by the administration required Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger to provide a report to Congress , within seven days of enactment , on plans to protect U.S. warships and flag ships in the Persian Gulf . It did not , however , place any restrictions on the administration as it proceeds to reflag the Kuwaiti ships and thus has no immediate effect on U.S. policy . The Senate was expected to approve the legislation this week . The bill would then be sent to Reagan for signature . Supporters of the bill said passage of the bill was only a first step toward a greater congressional involvement in formulating policy . But Democratic critics said the bill did not ask the administration to address tough policy questions in the report . Reuter 
<TEST	18329	ship	crude>
American defense strategy in the MidEast Gulf said they favored a multinational force to keep oil flowing through the waterway . Sen. John Glenn and John Warner , in Kuwait as part of a Gulf Arab tour , said at a news conference that top officials in the area appeared ready to discuss extra facilities needed if the U.S. upgraded its defense role . The Senate team next heads for the United Arab Emirates , their last stop on a fact-finding mission prompted by Reagan administration plans to let half of Kuwait 's 22-tanker fleet fly the U.S. flag . Glenn and Warner said the U.S. , Britain and France , should explore the possibility of a unified Gulf force . " The American ships , the British ships , the French ships now talk to each other and all we 've got to do is formalize this arrangement , " Warner said . Glenn said a multinational force could be effectively deployed within 24 hours of a decision . Glenn voiced a preference for a United Nations multinational force , or failing that , an American , British , French force with cooperation from the Gulf Arab states . Warner voiced concern that the Soviet Union might use the situation in the Gulf to raise its presence . " And , unequivocally , all GCC states we have talked with , have said that would not be in the interests of the Arabian peninsula . " Reuter 
<TEST	18332	crude>
of its bombings of oil pipelines pending the government 's levy of a social tax on foreign petroleum companies and an 800 mln dlrs fine on the Occidental Petroleum Corp <OXY> . There was no indication the government would meet the conditions demanded by the leftist National Liberation Army ( ELN ) . According to the state oil firm , ECOPETROL , the ELN carried out 72 attacks on petroleum pipelines between 1984 and 1986 . The assa ults , the most recent launched two months ago , have caused an estimated total of 50 mln dlrs in damage . In a communique , the ELN said it would demand a tax of one dollar per barrel of crude oil pumped by foreign firms as a condition for maintaining its suspension of the assa ults . Foreign oil firms pump an average of 225,083 barrels per day in Colombia . Colombian tax authorities are investigating Occidental , a U.S.-owned firm , for alleged tax evasion . If the charges are proven , the firm could face a fine of up to 800 mln dlrs . The ELN demands the government charge the penalty . Reuter 
<TEST	18340	crude	ship>
watch very carefully for any developments in the Gulf War and their consequences on the oil market , EC Energy Commissioner Nicolas Mosar said today . Speaking two weeks after a U.S. warship was attacked in the Gulf , Mosar warned , " An escalation in the Gulf would increase tensions in the oil market . " " But I do not want to be alarmist , " he told a news conference after an EC energy ministers meeting in Luxembourg . He said the volume of EC oil imports from the Gulf had declined to around 31 pct of total oil imports in the first three months of 1987 against 35 pct in the same period last year . " There are also other potential sources of supplies in the world , " he added . The issue of Gulf oil imports was not discussed at the ministers ' meeting , he added . A EC committee of national experts in the so-called oil supply group would discuss Gulf oil supplies at their bi-annual meeting on June 19 , he said . But any major decisions would have to be reserved for EC foreign ministers , diplomats said . West European nations have so far shown little enthusiasm for backing a U.S. plan to give military protection to merchant ships in the Gulf which could help insure the safety of oil supplies . Reuter 
<TEST	18345	grain	wheat>
northeastern British Columbia crops have been seeded , about a week ahead of the 10 year average , according to the Alberta wheat pool report . Hard red spring wheat accounts for most acreage with 6.0 mln estimated for this year , little changed from last year . Oats acreage of 1.95 mln is unchanged on last year and barley area of 5.9 mln is also similar to last year . Rapeseed planting of an estimated 3.24 mln is expected five pct up on 1986 . The south and south central areas of Alberta lacked moisture with germination patchy at best . Growth prospects in northern areas are generally in the good to very good range . Soil moisture is better in the north central and Peace areas , the wheat pool said . Reuter 
<TEST	18347	trade>
narrowed to 76 mln N.Z. Dlrs in April from a revised 89 mln dlrs in March , and 224 mln dlrs in April 1986 , in a smoothed seaso nally-adjusted measurement , the Statistics Department said . The March figure was revised from 69 mln dlrs . The department said in a statement seasonally adjusted , but non-smoothed figures , showed a deficit of 99 mln dlrs against 76 mln dlrs in March and 230 mln dlrs in April 1986 . Totally unadjusted figures show a deficit of 83 mln dlrs against 164 mln dlrs in March , revised from 178 mln dlrs , and compared with 262 mln in April 1986 . The smoothed seasonally adjusted series shows a surplus on merchandise trade of 145 mln dlrs against 135 mln dlrs in March and 30 mln dlrs in April 1986 . Seasonally adjusted but non-smoothed figures show a merchandise trade surplus of 132 mln dlrs against a 148 mln dlr surplus in March and a 14 mln dlr surplus in April 1986 . Unadjusted merchandise figures show a surplus of 151 mln dlrs against a 5.0 mln dlr ( revised from 10 mln dlr ) deficit in March and a 31 mln dlr deficit in March 1986 . The smoothed seasonally adjusted deficit on invisibles was 234 mln N.Z. Dlrs against 236 mln dlrs in March and 255 in April 1986 . The seasonally adjusted but non-smoothed deficit on invisibles was 240 mln dlrs against 229 mln dlrs in March and 245 mln dlrs in April 1986 . The unadjusted deficit on invisibles was 234 mln dlrs against 158 mln dlrs , revised from 168 mln dlrs , in March and 231 mln dlrs in April 1986 . Seasonally adjusted export and import figures were not available . The department said these figures show a continuing improvement in the current account deficit , caused mainly by an improvement in the balance on merchandise trade which has now being in surplus since november 1985 . Reuter 
<TEST	18357	ship>
requiring the Reagan administration to report to Congress on its Mideast Gulf policy but not restricting its actions . The vote in favor was despite a last-minute revolt by an alliance of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans who sought to defeat it as a signal that a growing number of legislators oppose President Reagan 's policies in the region . In the Senate , a leading Republican senator , former Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Mark Hatfield of Oregon , said he would try to prevent consideration of the bill . He said he will put a so-called " hold " on the bill until he finds out whether the War Powers Act applies to protecting Kuwaiti tankers . Congressional leaders complain they were not consulted about plans to put the U.S. flag on Kuwaiti ships and some charged the policy could lead the U.S. into the Iran-Iraq war . Conservative Republicans said increasing the U.S. military obligation in the gulf would place impossible burdens on American servicemen and equipment , and warned it could lead to war . " It is a real snake pit at best and a powder keg that will blow sky-high at worst , " said Wisconsin Rep. Toby Roth . Reuter 
<TEST	18360	money-fx>
higher following the sharp rally today after President Reagan announced that Paul Volcker would not accept a third term as Federal Reserve Chairman and that Alan Greenspan was nominated as his replacement , currency analysts said . Contrary to predictions before the Volcker resignation , analysts are calling for higher currency futures prices between now and the June 8 Venice economic summit . In particular , uncertainty about Greenspan 's attitude to the dollar could undermine sentiment toward the U.S. currency , analysts said . Greenspan said today that the dollar appeared to be nearing a bottom , but the market will bear in mind his remarks in Chicago last week that the dollar 's recent move upward was a technical reaction and that it would trade significantly lower , analysts said . "Disappointment of European central bankers over the appointment will be used as an opportunity to sell the dollar lower , " said Manufacturers Hanover Futures vice president Carol Mackoff . " The international community will not like this appointment , " as it suggests the possibility that the U.S. budget deficit is too much of a burden on monetary policy and that Volcker was unable to get the commitment he sought to reduce the deficit , added Merrill Lynch Economics analyst David Horner . Furthermore , "that Greenspan was not named two months ago suggests that he was not the Administration 's first choice and that the status of his appointment was as a bridesmaid , " Horner said . A declining dollar scenario with higher currency futures prior to and throughout the Venice meetings would be mitigated only by concrete action as opposed to " jawboning " at the G-7 summit , he said . But G-7 finance ministers , judged by recent statements , may be at an impasse , analysts said . Japan and West Germany today reiterated that neither planned further interest rate cuts , despite pressure from the U.S. to do so , Mackoff said . The U.S. , on the other hand , has not cut its budget deficit as Japan and West Germany have urged , she said . Should G-7 members force a U.S. commitment to cut its budget deficit in the next two years , a further decline in the dollar could be forestalled , Horner said . However , " the impact from Venice will be nothing if nothing changes , " Horner said . Smith Barney , Harris Upham and Co. analyst Craig Sloane said European currencies will likely move to the higher end of their 1987 ranges after today 's sharp advance . For the next two weeks , Sloan calls for September yen futures to advance toward the 0.007200 area . He said September marks could close in on 0.5700 as an upside target , while Swiss francs could climb to a range between 0.6900 and 0.6950 . Reuter 
<TEST	18362	interest>
is cutting its indicator lending rate to 22 pct from 23 pct effective from June 15 . Westpac said in a statement various other lending rates are also being revised downwards . The Westpac move follows base rate drops by other New Zealand trading banks recently . <Bank of New Zealand 's > base rate drops to 22 pct from 23 on June 16 and <National Bank of New Zealand Ltd's > rate falls to 21.50 pct from 23 on June 15 . The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> rate remains at 23 pct . Reuter 
<TEST	18370	money-fx>
dollar 's sharp fall against the yen overnight was only temporary . The dollar dropped sharply in New York after news that Paul Volcker would step down as chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve . Nakasone told reporters he did not expect U.S. Policy to change after Volcker steps down . REUTER 
<TEST	22171	grain	wheat>
bid of 89 dlrs per tonne in its tender for 200,000 tonnes of soft red or white wheat for June-July delivery under the export enhancement program , U.S. exporters said . USDA has rejected that bid twice , the sources noted . Reuter 
<TEST	22172	grain	wheat>
for 200,000 tonnes of French soft wheat for tomorrow for shipping between July and September , trade sources said . Tunisia has in recent weeks cancelled several tenders , which are covered by the French government 's COFACE export credits . Reuter 
<TEST	22102	dlr	money-fx>
Baker said any further decline in the dollar against other currencies would be counterproductive . Baker was asked after a speech to the Pan American Economic Leadership Conference about U.S. policy in light of President Reagan 's comment last week at the Venice summit that he could see some further decline in the dollar within reason . " All of the G-7 nations believe that any further decline in the dollar would be counterproductive , " Baker told reporters . Following the Venice press conference by Reagan , the White House clarified Reagan 's comments on the dollar by saying that the United States wants a stable dollar . The main incentive for the United States to favor a weaker dollar has been the need to reduce the massive trade deficit , but the deficit has narrowed for the past two months and appears to be responding to the 40 pct drop in the dollar against the yen and the mark during the past two years . Reuter 
<TEST	21978	grain	corn>
in mostly good condition and have not suffered any yield deterioration from recent hot , dry weather , Agriculture Department and private weather and crop analysts said . " I do n't see any reduction in yield potential yet , " Norton Strommen , chief meteorologist at USDA told Reuters . " The ( co rn and soybean ) crop is actually in mostly good condition and is progressing ahead of normal , which is good , " he said . Abnormally hot , dry weather in midwestern crop areas sparked a sharp rally in Chicago futures today , causing new crop soybeans to advance the 30 cent daily limit to 6.14 dlrs per bushel and September corn to go up 12 cents to 2.81 dlrs . " This rally is amazing , " a private crop analyst said . " Corn , soybeans and wheat are in excellent condition . " The USDA meteorologist said the only effects of the warm , dy weather on crops so far has probably been to speed up development of the crop , which will help the crop better cope with stress later in its more critical growing period . " What this weather will do is simply push the crop towards rapid development of a good , deep root system to draw on the subsoil reserve . It actually strengthens the crop to go through a little stress early on , " Strommen said . Strommen noted that subsoil moisture is in good shape in most growing areas . Strommen and other private crop analysts noted corn and soybeans will not enter their critical growth stages until July and August . But because of its early development this year , Strommen said the midwestern corn crop could enter its reproduction period by the first of July . " Weatherwise , if the market is truly concerned about corn or soybeans , it should be more concerned about corn . But the dryness still has to last for another two to three weeks , " an analyst said . Soybeans , on the other hand , can withstand several more weeks of dryness before yields start deteriorating , crop analysts agreed . August and September are the critical yield-producing months for soybeans , Strommen said . " The sole purpose of the soybean plant is to simply survive during May , June and July until the August rains which determine the crop , " a crop analyst said . Some analysts contend , however , that in certain growing areas the crop has not been receiving enough moisture to ensure that there will not be problems later . Strommen noted the USDA 's current six to 10 day weather forecast calls for above normal temperatures and below normal precipitation in much of the corn belt . " This opens up all sorts of speculation , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	21977	grain	corn>
more forecast , pushed grain futures prices to new highs today on the Chicago Board of Trade . Soybean futures led the advance , closing up the 30-cent-per-bushel daily trading limit in contracts for delivery after this year 's fall harvest . All months set life-of-contract highs and November closed at 6.23 dlrs a bushel . " The market is anticipating that it will stay hotter than normal for some time out , " said David Bartholomew , assistant vice president for Merrill Lynch . " We have probably gone as high as we need to go at this time , but I do n't know how to measure the euphoria level . " Soymeal futures , which led the grain rally last week , posted contract highs and ended up the 10 dlr a ton daily limit in new-crop contracts . December closed at 195.70 dlrs . Corn futures set contract highs in March through September , with December closing up the 10 cent a bushel limit at 2.11-3/4 dlrs . Wheat posted more modest gains as dry weather improved harvest conditions in the southern Midwest . The hot weather could stress developing corn and soybean plants in the Midwest , although some periods of dryness benefit young plants by encouraging the development of deep root systems , Bartholomew said . European demand for U.S. soybeans and meal contributed to active buying here and an estimated 2.0 mln bushels of soybean orders went unfilled at the close , traders said . After trading ended , a U.S. Agriculture Department ( USDA ) meteorologist said the U.S. corn and soybean crops have not suffered any yield loss yet from hot , dry weather . Strong grain futures ignored weakness in the value of the dollar , which can depress prices by making grains more expensive for foreign buyers . But the surge in soybeans encouraged buying at New York 's COM EX , where silver futures recovered from early lows to settle steady . Managed fund traders bought silver on the belief that the weather-spurred jump in grain futures will revive fears of inflation . But the weak dollar pressured COMEX gold futures , which closed down following last Friday 's news of improved U.S. trade deficit figures and better U.S. producer prices . A USDA report released after trading said the number of cattle being fed in seven major producing states was above levels expected by traders . Traders said the report would probably push live cattle futures lower tomorrow at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange . USDA put cattle-on-feed in the seven major states at 7.52 mln head , 106 pct of a year ago and at the high end of trade forecasts . A total of 1.954 mln head were placed on feed during May , up 111 pct from a year ago , and May cattle marketings were off 93 pct at 1.524 mln head , USDA said . Cattle futures closed mixed in choppy trading today as hot weather slowed consumer demand for red meat , traders said . Reuter 
<TEST	22173	grain	wheat>
opportunity to sell 170,000 tonnes of wheat to West African countries under the Export Enhancement Program , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . It said in addition to Benin , Cameroon , Ivory Coast , Ghana and Togo , four more countries Burkina Faso , Gabon , Liberia and Niger have been declared eligible under the initiative . The export sales will be subsidized with commodities from the inventory of the Commodity Credit Corporation ( CCC ) , it said . West African countries have already purchased 129,500 tonnes of wheat under previously announced export bonus programs , it noted . Reuter 
<TEST	22103	dlr	money-fx	trade>
based on purchasing power parity , the Ministry of International Trade and Industry ( MITI ) said in its annual white paper on international trade . Using 1973 as a base year , the ministry said inflation differentials pointed to a yen/dollar rate of 172 in fourth quarter 1986 . The dollar opened here today at 144.90 yen . MITI also said the so-called " J-curve " and the drop in oil prices together accounted for 33.2 billion dlrs of the 36.6 billion dlr rise in Japan 's trade surplus last year . On a customs cleared basis , the Japanese trade surplus rose to a record 82.66 billion dlrs last year . The ministry said the fall in oil prices accounted for 16.5 billion dlrs and the " J-curve " 17.2 billion dlrs of the rise in the 1986 surplus . Analyzing the expansion in Japan 's trade imbalance in recent years , MITI calculated that 37 pct of it could be accounted for by exchange rates , 24 pct by differences in economic growth rates between Japan and other countries , and 36 pct by so-called price elasticities of imports and exports . Analyzing the expansion in the U.S. Trade deficit from 1982 to 1985 , the ministry said 24 pct was accounted for by exchange rates , 34 pct by differences in the income elasticity of imports and exports and 39 pct by differences in economic growth rates . The figures do not tally to 100 pct because other minor factors have been left out . "One index of trade structure , the income elasticity of exports and imports , shows that the U.S. Is more likely to experience increases in imports , while Japan is structurally predisposed to growth in exports , " MITI said . Structural adjustment is already underway in Japan , under the impact of the strong yen , MITI said . Japanese companies are stepping up their imports and expanding capacity overseas . Japanese consumer attitudes are also changing . The ministry cited a survey showing that price was now the number one factor in the purchase of imports from the U.S. And Western Europe , replacing design and brand reputations . " The smooth adjustment of the economic structure calls for measures to address the needs of affected firms , " it said . " Whole industries have felt the pinch and employment is expected to suff er . " " Sustained economic growth , led by domestic demand , will also be an essential condition , " the ministry said . It said four structural factors have contributed to the growth of the U.S. Trade deficit in recent years a decline in U.S. Industrial competitiveness , insufficient productive capacity , an increase in foreign procurement by U.S. Companies and short-sighted U.S. Management attitudes . " While ( U.S. ) exports have picked up somewhat with the dollar 's fall in value , no marked improvements have appeared in the import pictur e , " MITI said . REUTER 
<TEST	22029	ship>
said it began building the world 's most advanced energy-saving tanker , which consumes only 48 tonnes of fuel oil a day . Construction of the 258,000 dwt VLCC ( very large crude carrier ) Nisseki Maru for <Tokyo Tanker Co Ltd> , a shipping arm of Nippon Oil Co Ltd < NPOL.T> , is expected to be completed in April 1988 . It would run on the Japan/Gulf route , a company statement said . The statement gave no other details . Mitsubishi Heavy last year finished building a vlcc of similar size , but which consumed 57 tonnes of fuel a day . REUTER 
<TEST	22163	money-fx	interest>
that it will lift its veto on the private holding of European Currency Unit ( ECU ) liabilities , banking sources said . But this would probably be the only significant news from today 's council session , brought forward from its usual Thursday date because of the Corpus Christi holiday here . The Bundesbank is not expected to change credit policy . The sources said Bundesbank officials had been working out technical and legal problems with the ECU since the subject was discussed in the presence of federal finance minister Gerhard Stoltenberg on May 7 . With the primary internal work on the ECU completed , approval from the 18-member central bank council was now virtually a mere formality , the sources said . Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl , chairing today 's meeting , said in mid-May the remaining ECU restrictions were likely to be lifted , allowing individuals to open ECU accounts and incur liabilities previously mainly executed through the Luxembourg subsidiaries of the major German banks . The sources said the ECU liberalisation was mainly designed to show that West Germany was prepared to play its part in the effort to attain European Community monetary unity by 1992 . REUTER 
<TEST	22075	money-fx	trade>
all controls on capital outflows , raising the prospect that Taiwan 's vast resevoir of foreign exchange will flow into the world economy . A government spokesman said the new law would be promulgated by President Chiang Ching-Kuo within 10 days and financial authorities would then be empowered to lift controls on currency outflows at any time . Tight restrictions on capital inflows introduced this year will remain in place , the spokesman said . Central Bank Governor Chang Chi-Cheng has said the controls will be lifted at the end of next month or early in August . The central bank and finance ministry proposed lifting currency restrictions to help reduce Taiwan 's foreign exchange reserves , which stand at about 60 billion U.S. Dlrs and have led to runaway growth in money supply . The reserves , the world 's third largest after Japan and West Germany , also draw attention to Taiwan 's huge trade surplus and the government fears they are making the island a target for U.S. Trade protectionism . The surplus rose 34 pct to a record 7.32 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first five months of this year and about 90 pct of it was with the United States . Money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 51.9 pct in the year to end-April , raising fears of higher inflation . Local bankers and economists say when the controls are lifted , businessmen will be allowed to buy foreign currency and invest it freely overseas . But they warn against expectations of a sudden outflow of capital . " I do n't think we 're going to see a big bang , " John Brinsden , the Taiwan manager of Standard Chartered Bank told Reuters in a recent interview . Bankers said that businessmen have been holding vast quantities of foreign exchange overseas for many years and also have been freely buying and exporting currency through a flourishing black-market . " Obviously there will be an outflow of funds But I do n't think it 's going to be much ," said Danny Chan , director of Fidelity Securities Investment Consulting Corp. Economists say the success of plans to encourage capital outflow depend on whether the central bank can slow the rise of the local currency . The Taiwan dollar has risen by about 23 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1983 , prompting an inflow of speculative money . It rose by one Taiwan cent today to close at 31.08 . The government spokesman said the new law does not empower authorities to permanently lift capital controls , but any proposal to reimpose them would need the approval of parliament . Many economists believe that once the controls are lifted it will be almost impossible to reimpose them . REUTER 
<TEST	18465	interest>
Australian prime rate to 16 pct from 16.5 , effective tomorrow . The new rate , if unmatched by other banks , will be the lowest among Australian trading banks . Other primes range from 16.25 to 17.5 pct . Australian prime rates have now retreated from a recent peak of 19 pct in October in line with declining money market levels . Citibank said its reduction reflected the decline . REUTER 
<TEST	18470	ship>
by Japanese yards in May fell to five vessels totalling 188,900 gross tons ( g t ) from eight ships of 314,000 gt in April , against four ships of 104,500 gt a year earlier , the Japan Ship Exporters Association said . The backlog of orders at end-May was 122 ships of 3.70 mln gt against 125 ships of 3.73 mln at end-April and 233 ships of 5.99 mln a year ago , an association official said . The world shipping recession and the yen 's appreciation against the dollar depressed May orders , he said . REUTER 
<TEST	18472	trade>
the U.S. Would erase its large foreign trade deficit faster than many predicted , and the consequences for its trade partners might be traumatic . " The U.S. Economy will inevitably make the adjustment necessary to move from a deficit to a surplus trade balance in order to service our growing foreign debt , " he told a conference attended by the six members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and their leading Western friends . " In my view , this will happen more rapidly than many observers now predict . " " The universal strategy of aggressive export-led growth is becoming less effective , " Shultz said . " It is not arithmetically possible for every country in the world to be a net exporter at the same time . The U.S. D eficit , which we all decry , has been in a sense the place into which everyone 's export-led strategy for growth has gone . " " The huge surpluses of Japan and ( West ) Germany have fed on this deficit , so something will have to give and it will be possibly a traumatic experience , " he added . " While you must keep up the pressure on us to eschew protectionist policies , you must act too , " Shultz said . " I can do a better job of convincing the Congress to leave our door open to imports if more of our trading partners open their doors wider , " he told the group , which included representatives from Australia , Canada , Japan , New Zealand and the European Community . REUTER 
<TEST	18482	grain	corn>
to 25.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87 ended March 31 from 25.23 mln a year earlier , the Agriculture Ministry said . The marginal rise reflected slight growth in demand for poultry raising and a moderate increase in demand for beef cattle raising , Ministry officials said . Compound feed sales totalled 26.01 mln tonnes in 1986/87 against 25.40 mln a year ago , while end-March stocks were 217,554 tonnes against 224,101 . Corn use in feed output in 1986/87 rose to 11.71 mln tonnes from 11.02 mln a year earlier due to low import prices . The officials said corn imports rose because the world surplus and the yen 's strength against the dollar reduced Chicago prices . The corn compounding ratio rose to 45.2 pct in 1986/87 from 43.4 pct a year earlier . Sorghum use rose marginally to 4.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87 from 4.79 mln , but the compounding ratio fell to 18.5 pct from 18.9 pct because of greater corn use . Higher import prices due to poor harvests last year in major producing nations such as Argentina made feed makers reluctant to use sorghum . Soybean meal use fell to 2.58 mln tonnes from 2.63 mln and the compounding ratio declined to 10.0 pct from 10.3 pct . The drop in soybean meal consumption resulted from increased use of cheaper rapeseed meal , the officials said . Rapeseed consumption in 1986/87 was 563,889 tonnes against 528,152 a year earlier . The compounding ratio rose to 2.2 pct from 2.1 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	18488	interest>
it will lower its reference rate for loans to 15.75 pct from 16.25 pct and its overdraft reference rate to 16.25 pct from 16.75 , effective June 24 . Bank officials have said the bank regards the overdraft reference rate , based on short-term rate trends , as its key prime lending rate to corporate customers . The loan reference rate is based on longer term trends . The bank is the latest to cut prime rates in recent days following a continuing decline in market rates . Other prime rates now range from 16 pct to 17.5 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	18493	crude>
output fell 7.6 pct to 23,480 megalitres , or about 147 mln barrels , in the first nine months of fiscal 1986/87 ending June 30 , the Department of Resources and Energy said . The decline in production in the nine months to end-March reflected mainly a sharp dip early in the fiscal year , when low oil prices and high marginal excise rates led to a reduction of output from Bass Strait , department figures in its Major Energy Statistics publication show . A megalitre is 6,290 barrels . REUTER 
<TEST	18496	trade>
11.0 billion schillings in the first four months this year from 8.2 billion in the same period last year , the National Bank said . In April , the current account recorded a deficit of 300 mln schillings compared with an 800 mln surplus in March and an 800 mln deficit in April , 1986 , the bank said in a statement . The trade deficit in the first four months fell to 16.4 billion schillings from 17.5 billion in the same period last year while in April the deficit was 4.1 billion compared with 6.9 billion in March and 3.6 billion in April , 1986 . REUTER 
<TEST	18519	trade>
<SHRP.T> decided to maintain exports of lap-top personal computers to the European Community ( EC ) at last year 's levels , despite the halt of shipments to the U.S. , Company spokesmen told Reuters . They said the voluntary restraints were aimed at averting EC sanctions urged by European computer makers . The Europeans feared Japanese personal computers would flood EC markets after Washington imposed 100 pct tariffs last April . Toshiba and Sharp together control about 40 pct of the personal computer market in the EC , the Sharp spokesman said . Toshiba said exports of T1100 and T3100 lap-top computers would continue at 5,000 units a month for the time being . Sharp said exports to the EC of PC 7000 series lap-top personal computers would continue at last year 's level of 12,000 to 16,000 units a year . Washington imposed the tariffs because of Japan 's alleged failure to uphold a 1986 agreement on semiconductor trade . REUTER 
<TEST	18520	interest>
one , two , and three month treasury certificate rates , all by 0.10 points , effective immediately . The cuts take the one month rate to 6.75 pct , the two month rate to 6.80 pct and the key three month rate to 6.85 pct , the central bank said in a telex . A National Bank spokesman said the modest cut was made after a decline in domestic money market rates yesterday , and was not expected to be followed by a cut in the 7.60 pct discount rate . The short-term treasury certificate rates , and especially the three-month rate , have been the National Bank 's main monetary policy instrument for the last two years . The discount rate has been the market 's penalty rate rather than a guiding rate since 1985 , and its advances are currently little used as liquidity is ample , bank economists said . The bank last cut one to three-month certificate rates on June 5 , also by 0.10 points . REUTER 
<TEST	18521	crude	ship>
nominations to lift a higher proportion of Arab Heavy crude oil under term contracts in July , oil industry sources said . Japanese companies requested a ratio of 80 pct Arab Heavy to 20 pct Arab Light under a term contract agreement with Aramco for 100,000 barrels per day , the sources said . The contractual ratio is 30 pct heavy crude to 70 pct light . Japanese demand for heavy crude oil has increased substantially since the All Japan Seaman 's Union ceased sailing into the northern Mideast gulf last month , causing problems with liftings of heavy Kuwait and Khafji crudes . REUTER 
<TEST	18523	crude>
has informed its affiliated Japanese companies that crude oil supplies will be 40 pct less than contractual volumes in July , a spokesman for an affiliated company said . He said the allocations were in line with Indonesia 's production ceiling under its current OPEC quota , so they might be increased if OPEC ratifies a production rise next week . Allocations of Indonesia 's main traded crude , Minas , had been cut by 50 pct and Duri by 38 pct , he said . Last month contractual volumes were cut by 30 pct . Contractual volumes assume no production ceiling . Oil traders said Indonesian grades were already trading above their official selling prices ( osp ) on the spot market due to strong demand from Japan and the U.S. And tight supplies . A cargo of Duri loading in July was reportedly traded yesterday at 70 cents over its osp of 15.60 dlrs per barrel and Minas is trading about 20 cents higher , they said . REUTER 
<TEST	18549	interest>
Australian prime rate to 16 pct from 16.5 , effective tomorrow . The new rate , if unmatched by other banks , will be the lowest among Australian trading banks . Other primes range from 16.25 to 17.5 pct . Australian prime rates have now retreated from a recent peak of 19 pct in October in line with declining money market levels . Citibank said its reduction reflected the decline . REUTER 
<TEST	18554	trade>
propose a temporary ban on imports of all Toshiba products due to the company 's illegal sales of sensitive high-technology goods to the Soviet Union . Senator Jake Garn , John Heinz and Richard Selby said at a hearing of the senate banking committee on export control , they will offer the proposal as part of a major trade bill when it is brought before the senate this summer . Garn , a Utah Republican , said " I am talking about specific retribution on a company that endangers the security of their own country and ours . " Reuter 
<TEST	18564	interest>
it will lower its reference rate for loans to 15.75 pct from 16.25 pct and its overdraft reference rate to 16.25 pct from 16.75 , effective June 24 . Bank officials have said the bank regards the overdraft reference rate , based on short-term rate trends , as its key prime lending rate to corporate customers . The loan reference rate is based on longer term trends . The bank is the latest to cut prime rates in recent days following a continuing decline in market rates . Other prime rates now range from 16 pct to 17.5 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	18571	ship>
Cumberlande , which sank in the South Pacific last Friday , was carrying a cargo which included lead as well as magnesium ore , a Lloyds Shipping Intelligence spokesman said . He was unable to confirm the tonnages involved . Trade reports circulating the London Metal Exchange said the vessel , en route to New Orleans from Newcastle , New South Wales , had been carrying 10,000 tonnes of lead concentrates . Traders said this pushed lead prices higher in early morning trading as the market is currently sensitive to any fundamental news due to its finely balanced supply/demand position and low stocks . Trade sources said that 10,000 tonnes of lead concentrates could convert to around 5,000 tonnes of metal , although this depended on the quality of the concentrates . A loss of this size could cause a gap in the supply pipeline , particularly in North America , they noted . Supplies there have been very tight this year and there is a strike at one major producer , Cominco , and labour talks currently being held at another , Noranda subsidiary Brunswick Mining and Smelting Ltd. REUTER 
<TEST	18595	interest>
announced a 0.75 pct reduction in the mortgage interest rate applicable to new mortgages taken out from June 19 , 1987 . The new rate is 10.5 pct ( APR Annual Percentage Rate 11.2 pct including fees for normal repayment mortgages , and 11.1 pct including fees for endowment and pension mortgages ) . A spokesman for Nat West said the position for existing mortgages is being kept under active review in the light of market conditions , and an announcement will be made as soon as possible . REUTER 
<TEST	18609	grain>
recommendations for sweeping reforms to its farm economy , as the country 's foreign aid donors met to consider giving it 2.5 billion dlrs in grants and soft loans . Agriculture Minister Achmad Affandi , in written remarks distributed today as Indonesia 's 14 foreign donor nations met at The Hague , said , " The general argument presented by the Bank for this free trade , open economy view is weak . " The Bank called for overhauls in how Indonesia manages the largest farm area in South-east Asia , and said agricultural growth was stagnating under subsisides for rice farming . The Bank report said Indonesia 's rice production had peaked and the subsidies are a waste of money . Affandi replied that rice is the main staple and provides an income for 17 pct of the workforce . The subsidies were needed to support the fertilizer industry , including importers , exporters , producers and distributors , he said , as well as assisting in small part the majority of Indonesian farmers . Affandi agreed with a bank recommendation that farmers should be free to choose their own crops , but he said the government would continue to maintain production targets for " strategic commoditie s " such as rice and sugar . The Bank report was especially critical of Indonesia 's drive to plant sugar , saying domestic sugar prices are double the world average because of inefficiencies , and the country would save money by importing the commodity . However , Affandi said volatile world sugar prices , the need to save foreign exchange and an already up-and-running sugar industry were good arguments for continuing the sugar drive . He also said import barriers and trade monopolies in the agricultural sector were needed to help domestic industry develop and because of " over-production and price intervention in the developed nations . " REUTER 
<TEST	18614	grain	corn>
negotiators agreed as part of an overall budget accord reached yesterday , to cut 1.25 billion dlrs from fiscal 1988 spending on agricultural programs , Congressional sources told Reuters . The agreed cut in farm programs is a compromise between 1.4 billion sought by the Senate and one billion by the House . The negotiators also agreed to cut 1.6 billion from the farm budget in fiscal 1989 and 2.45 billion in 1990 , for a total of 5.3 billion in saving over three years , sources said . The agreement presents the House and Senate Agriculture committees with difficult choices on how to make changes in agriculture programs that achieve the budget savings targets without jeopardizing popular support payments , senior Congressional aides told Reuters . Some farm state lawmakers already are manuevering to find the budget savings . Rep. Dan Glickman , D-Kan. , Chairman of the House grains subcommittee , has introduced a bill which would freeze wheat and corn loan rates for the 1988 crop at the current 2.28 dlrs and 1.92 dlrs respectively , saying it would save 500 mln dlrs . House Agriculture Committee chairman Kika De la Garza has said the committee will consider the Glickman proposal . But Congressional sources said the proposal is unlikely to be approved because of opposition from Republican lawmakers and a strong stance by Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng , who said freezing loan rates would send the wrong signal to other major grain export competitors and would not achieve the budget savings Glickman claims . Another area where Glickman and other have said budget savings might be made is to increase acreage reduction program , ARP , levels for wheat and corn . However , on this issue also Lyng has taken a strong stand within the Reagan administration , arguing that the 1988 crop wheat acreage reduction should be left at 27.5 pct and not 30 pct as sought by the Office of Management and Budget , OMB. Most commodity lobbyists expect Lyng to prevail . Congressional sources said the only way to achieve significant budget cuts through ARP increases would be to boost the 1988 corn ARP . But one informed Congressional source said singling-out corn for an ARP increase would would be seen as unfair to one commodity . Congressional sources said the areas where Congress is most likely to eventually look for budget savings are some tightening of the payment limitation rules , and possible adoption of a 0/92 program for the 1988 crops of major grains . Those changes would achieve a portion of the 1.25 billion but not enough , they said . Ultimately , Congressional sources said the agriculture committees may be forced to apply an across-the-board cut on all Commodity Credit Corp. payments to farmers , including price support loans and deficiency payments , similar to the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget cut applied in fiscal 1986 . This idea has been suggested by the American Farm Bureau Federation , AFBF , as the fairest approach for all commodities . Reuter 
<TEST	18621	crude>
prices assigned to their crude oil but this should not pose great problems when the group reviews its six-m o n t h-old price and output pact in Vienna next week , oil analysts say . They said Nigeria , which holds the OPEC conference presidency , and Qatar probably have the biggest grievances about price differentials making some of their crudes uncompetitive . There has also been speculation by Japanese traders that OPEC might want to mark up prices of high-sulphur heavy crudes , to correspond with greater demand and higher fuel oil prices . But most experts agree that a major overhaul of price differentials is unlikely , so as to avoid giving the market signals of a dent in OPEC 's new unity . " All OPEC members can make a good case for changing differentials , " said one analyst with a major oil company . " But at the end of the day , the attitude is going to be " leave well alone ' and little or nothing is likely to be altered . " Iran , Libya and Saudi Arabia are among those who also saw sales problems earlier this year , traders say . But diminished customer resistance to fixed prices and , in some cases , marketing incentives have helped their sales . Some producers can sell uncompetitively priced crudes by means of discounts , processing deals or selling them alongside better priced grades in a " package . " Many OPEC crudes are seen to be reasonably priced , at least for some part of the year . But many experts say OPEC should change prices quarterly or monthly to match seasonal demand for fuel oil-rich heavy crudes and gasoline-rich lighter grades . At its last meeting in December , OPEC agreed to reintroduce fixed prices from February 1 around an 18 dlr per barrel reference point . Official prices had been effectively dropped in 1985 when members offered discounts to attract customers . OPEC also decided to limit first-half 1987 output to 15.8 mln bpd and proposed ceilings of 16.6 mln for the third quarter and 18.3 mln for the fourth . Analysts expect it will now extend or raise slightly the current ceiling for the coming months . Spot market and netback values for some crudes do not mirror official prices , but OPEC will probably keep the 18 dlr target and at most make minimal changes to differentials , analysts say . The 18 dlr figure is based on a basket of six OPEC and one non-OPEC crudes . OPEC assigned prices to its other key export crudes , with a 2.65 dlr gap between the heaviest and ligh test . Extra heavy crudes were among those left out . Industry estimates vary on the proportion of OPEC oil exports actually sold at official prices . Several experts say only one-quarter to one-third of the total in fact sells at official prices , with some of the rest included in processing or barter deals or sold in the form of refined products . Problems with the new structure appeared earlier this year , when some producers ' output fell due to customer reluctance to pay the new prices . Nigeria especially found its gasoline-rich Bonny Light crude now OPEC 's highest priced grade at 18.92 dlrs a barrel was uncompetitive on the spot market against Britain 's Brent . In February and March , Nigeria 's production shrank below its 1.238 mln bpd OPEC quota . Spot prices have since revived , due partly to seasonal demand for gasoline , and its output has risen . Some experts feel Bonny Light is still overvalued and say its price should be cut by between 50 cts to one dlr a barrel . But Mehdi Varzi , chief oil analyst with London 's Kleinwort Grieveson Securities , doubts Nigeria will actively push the differentials question in Vienna . " It would not look good for OPEC unity if Nigeria , which holds the presidency , raised the issue ," he said . REUTER 
<TEST	18625	money-fx>
the government 's announcement of a forecast budget surplus for fiscal 1988 but said it was consistent with previous policy statements and positive for the economy . Finance Minister Roger Douglas predicted a budget surplus for the year ending March 1988 of 379 mln New Zealand dlrs against a 1.95 billion deficit last year . Analysts polled by Reuters said the forecast budget surplus was even more positive than the most bullish analysts ' forecasts and that this was good news for financial markets . Market expectations among analysts questioned by Reuters before the budget varied widely between a balanced budget and a 2.3 billion dlr deficit . But none predicted a surplus . The forecast initially looks positive for both the bond and the foreign exchange markets , one analyst said . Paradoxically , the New Zealand dollar could rise in the medium term , despite lower interest rates , as overseas investors became more confident about investing in New Zealand , he said . However , some foreign exchange dealers disagreed , saying the local dollar is primarily interest rate driven and will move lower . The local dollar dropped to 0.5940/50 U.S. Dlrs in after hours trading , against 0.5970/77 just before the budget release . Analysts said the budget was also positive for the share market , despite an increase in the contribution of company taxation to revenue figures . One equities analyst predicted that the budget surplus announcement could push the share market up by 50 points tomorrow . The Budget statement was broadly as expected , with a continuation of existing policies , and the absence of traditional pre-e lection incentives would be viewed positively by overseas investors , another said . But one merchant bank economist said that certain anti-tax avoidance measures could damage some sectors of the share market , particularly multi-national companies . The government is also lowering its borrowing requirements , through bond tenders , as a result of the surplus . The requirement for the rest of the year is now down to 950 mln N.Z. Dlrs from a predicted 1.75 billion . Predicted revenue in the Budget looked sustainable and there appeared to be no holding back on expenditure , another economist said . He added that the document seemed entirely credible . " Altogether it looks good for Labour 's election prospects , " he said . An election is due before the end of September . REUTER 
<TEST	18642	grain>
recommendations for sweeping reforms to its farm economy , as the country 's foreign aid donors met to consider giving it 2.5 billion dlrs in grants and soft loans . Agriculture Minister Achmad Affandi , in written remarks distributed today as Indonesia 's 14 foreign donor nations met at The Hague , said , " The general argument presented by the Bank for this free trade , open economy view is weak . " The Bank called for overhauls in how Indonesia manages the largest farm area in South-east Asia , and said agricultural growth was stagnating under subsidies for rice farming . The Bank report said Indonesia 's rice production had peaked and the subsidies are a waste of money . Affandi replied that rice is the main staple and provides an income for 17 pct of the workforce . The subsidies were needed to support the fertilizer industry , including importers , exporters , producers and distributors , he said , as well as assisting in small part the majority of Indonesian farmers . Affandi agreed with a bank recommendation that farmers should be free to choose their own crops , but he said the government would continue to maintain production targets for " strategic commoditie s " such as rice and sugar . The Bank report was especially critical of Indonesia 's drive to plant sugar , saying domestic sugar prices are double the world average because of inefficiencies , and the country would save money by importing the commodity . However , Affandi said volatile world sugar prices , the need to save foreign exchange and an already up-and-running sugar industry were good arguments for continuing the sugar drive . He also said import barriers and trade monopolies in the agricultural sector were needed to help domestic industry develop and because of " over-production and price intervention in the developed nations . " Reuter 
<TEST	18651	crude>
Transmission Co Ltd said it agreed to acquire the Western Canada oil and gas reserves and properties of AGIP Canada Ltd , a subsidiary of AGIP SpA , part of Italy 's ENI group , for 54 mln Canadian dlrs . At the end of 1986 , AGIP Canada reported proven and probable reserves of 4.2 mln barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids and 22.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas . AGIP Canada also holds 176,000 net exploratory acres in Western Canada . Its properties produce about 1,100 barrels of oil a day . The deal is subject to approval by both companies ' directors . Westcoast said the acquisition would enable it to apply more than 150 mln dlrs of accumulated tax pools of AGIP Canada Ltd to enhance after-tax cash flow from the acquired properties . AGIP Canada said it would retain offshore exploration blocks in Labrador , a gold mine in Yukon Territory and uranium interests in Saskatchewan . Reuter 
<TEST	18672	interest>
the chances of another base lending rate cut from the current nine pct further into the distance , analysts said . A record fall in unemployment and good manufacturing production data showed that the economy is still strong and does not need a fillip from lower rates . News that underlying earnings are rising 7.75 pct annually , taken together with higher than expected bank lending and money supply growth , revived inflation worries and monetarist arguments against easier credit , they said . " The timetable on lower interest rates is being pushed back all the while . The strength of the economy and broad money growth are making it more difficult to see one in the near term , " said Chase Manhattan Securities economist Robin Marshall . Analysts have reached this conclusion despite yesterday 's mortgage rate cuts for new borrowers , which building societies said were a sign of the expected near term trend for U.K. Rates . It also counters the optimistic forecasts of last week that a post-general election cut was imminent , supported by such optimistic economic news as May 's record reserves rise which mirrored the Bank of England efforts to cap sterling 's strength . The gilt market lost nearly half a point as enthusiasm about May 's 64,300 fall in the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate , to 2.95 mln or 10.6 pct of the workforce , was rapidly replaced by dismay at the continued high level of underlying average earnings in April , dealers said . The upset was compounded by news that sterling bank lending rose 2.7 billion stg in May , above forecast , and that the Bank of England looks likely to have to sell more gilts to offset the impact on domestic money supply of its current intervention . " The gilt market reaction was correct , " said Bill Martin , chief U.K. Economist at brokers Phillips and Drew . "That 's very important It shows the economy in a very good state indeed, " Skeoch said . " There 's no reason to get worries about inflationary pressures because they 're very subdued . " Unit wage cost rises were better than expected , just one pct higher in the year to April , and it was these costs rather than average earnings which were potentially inflationary , he added . " I do n't think these average earnings numbers are a major problem , " agreed Chase Manhattan 's Marshall . But he said the gilts market was likely to remain worried about the funding implications of recent intervention . He said the inflow of foreign money into sterling assets earlier this year , attracted by growth prospects and hopes that the ruling Conservatives would win last week 's election , now looks likely to prevent a base rate cut as the authorities try to prevent these funds swelling the domestic money system . However , David Owen , U.K. Economist at Kleinwort Grieveson Securities , said any fresh sterling strength would still trigger a base rate cut and that today 's figures did not signal higher inflation this year . " Wage increases are being offset by productivity growth . As long as that continues we 're okay , " he added . REUTER 
<TEST	18674	money-fx>
Seger said there were signs of helpful stability in foreign exchange markets in recent weeks . " I think we are beginning to see more calm in those markets , " Seger told reporters after a speech to the U.S. League of Savings Institutions . " I think it is very healthy when you can get into a period of stability , " she said . She said market forces have a major influence on exchange rates and said she did not know the right value for the dollar against the Yen or the Mark . Seger told the Savings and Loan executives that she was concerned about financial markets ' absorption with exchange rate influences . " I am concerned that we have gotten so nervous , " about exchange rates , Seger said . She said the Fed takes into account additional factors in determining monetary policy than the value of the dollar against other currencies . On the economy , Seger called the latest figures in gross national product a modest upward revision . Reuter 
<TEST	18689	crude>
interest is owned by the Royal Dutch/Shell Group of companies , raised the postings of light sweet and sour crude oil from Edmonton/Swann Hills 32 Canadian cts a barrel , effective today . The new price for light sweet crude oil is 25.60 Canadian dlrs a barrel while the new price for light sweet sour crude is 24.08 Canadian dlrs a barrel . The Royal Dtuch/Shell Group owns 72 pct of Shell Canada and public shareholders , primarily Canadian , own the remaining 28 pct of the company , a Shell Canada spokesman said . Reuter 
<TEST	18698	crude>
owned , said it raised its posting for light sweet crude oil at Edmonton by 32 canadian cts a barrel , effective today . The company said its new posting for light sweet crude oil at Edmonton is 25.60 canadian dlrs a barrel . Reuter 
<TEST	18724	money-fx	interest>
government securities market to supply reserves via either a large round of customer repurchase agreements or by overnight or possibly four-day system repurchases , economists said . They said the Fed has a fairly large add need and is likely to face the most reserve dislocations early in the new statement period started today as corporate tax payments swell Treasury balances at the Fed . Fed funds hovered at 6-3/4 pct after averaging 6.80 pct yesterday . Reuter 
<TEST	18728	crude>
Petroleum said it raised its posted prices for crude oil across the board by 50 cts a barrel , effective June 17 . Citgo said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel . Light Louisiana Sweet is now posted at 19.35 , the company said . Reuter 
<TEST	18736	crude>
oil posted prices by 50 cts a barrel , effective June 17 . The company said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel . Light Louisiana Sweet crude is now 19.35 dollars a barrel , the company said . Increases follow a general trend in the industry started yesterday by Sun Co. Reuter 
<TEST	18738	crude>
its crude oil posted prices for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour by 50 cts a barrel , effective June 17 . The company said the new posted price for WTI and WTS is 19 dlrs a barrel . The increase is in reaction to Sun Co raising postings similarly yesterday . Reuter 
<TEST	18746	crude>
Champlin Petroleum , said it raised posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel , effective yesterday . The price increase brings West Texas Intermediate , the U.S. benchmark grade , to 19.00 dlrs a barrel . The posted price increase follows a similar move by several other oil companies . Sun Co was the first to raise crude oil postings yesterday afternoon and today many other companies are following . The last price increase made by oil companies was around May 22 . Reuter 
<TEST	18748	trade>
a deficit of 3,211 billion lire in May compared with a surplus of 2,040 billion in April , provisional Bank of Italy figures show . The May deficit compares with a surplus of 1,555 billion lire in the corresponding month of 1986 . For the first five months of 1987 , the overall balance of payments showed a surplus of 299 billion lire against a deficit of 2,854 billion in the corresponding 1986 period . REUTER 
<TEST	18753	trade>
a deficit of 3,211 billion lire in May compared with a surplus of 2,040 billion in April , provisional Bank of Italy figures show . The May deficit compares with a surplus of 1,555 billion lire in the corresponding month of 1986 . For the first five months of 1987 , the overall balance of payments showed a surplus of 299 billion lire against a deficit of 2,854 billion in the corresponding 1986 period . REUTER 
<TEST	18754	crude>
postings of crude oil 50 cts a barrel across the board , effective yesterday , June 17 . The new price for West Texas Intermediate is 19.00 dlrs a barrel . For West Texas Sour the new price is 18.10 dlrs a barrel . Reuter 
<TEST	18763	money-fx	interest>
government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements , a spokesman for the New York Fed said . Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct when the Fed began its action . Reuter 
<TEST	18765	crude>
Intergroup , said it raised its crude oil postings by 50 cts a barrel , effective June 17 . the company said its new posted price for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel , while Light Louisiana Sweet is now 19.35 . The price hike follows other increases industrywide . Reuter 
<TEST	18773	crude>
company , raised the posting prices of sweet and sour crude oils 32 cts Canadian per barrel , effective today , the company said . The change brings the price of light sweet crude to 26.50 dlrs Canadian per barrel and the price of light sour crude to 23.77 dlrs Canadian a barrel . The crude oils are from Edmonton/Swann Hills . Reuter 
<TEST	18774	crude>
by Rio Tinto-Zinc Corp Pl c 's <RTZL.L> RTZ Oil and Gas Ltd unit and ruled that the financial provisions a company makes for the future cost of abandoning an oil field are not tax deductible , the Press Association reported . The company was appealing against a decision of the Tax Commissioners that any such provision was a capital expenditure , not a revenue expenditure , and was not deductible . The court was told that since 1976 the company had made an annual provision of around 750,000 stg for the eventual cost of abandoning a rig . An RTZ spokesman said the ruling was not worrying as the subsidiary had assumed that the provisions were not deductible from corporation tax payable . It would have been a bonus if the company had won but all budgeting had been on the assumption that it would not , he said . Oil analysts said that RTZ 's assumption of liability was shared by the industry as a whole . The ruling appeared to mean that tax relief on the expensive process of abandoning rigs would apply when the expense occurred , not when provisions for future expenses were built into the accounts , one analyst added . Reuter 
<TEST	18795	crude>
crude oil by 50 cts a barrel , effective June 17 . The company said it is now posting West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour at 19 dlrs a barrel . Unocal said its new Light Louisiana Sweet posted price is 19.35 dlrs a barrel . the price move follows a wave of increases initiated by Sun Co yesterday . Reuter 
<TEST	18798	trade>
dlrs in the first four months of 1987 compared with a surplus of 271.7 mln in the same period in 1986 , the central bank of Ecuador said in its latest monthly report . Ecuador suspended sales of crude oil , its principal export product , in March after an earthquake destroyed part of its oil-producing infrastructure . Exports in the first four months of 1987 were around 639 mln dlrs and imports 628.3 mln , compared with 771 mln and 500 mln respectively in the same period last year . Exports of crude and products in the first four months were around 256.1 mln dlrs , compared with 403.3 mln in the same period in 1986 . The central bank said that between January and May Ecuador sold 16.1 mln barrels of crude and 2.3 mln barrels of products , compared with 32 mln and 2.7 mln respectively in the same period last year . Ecuador 's international reserves at the end of May were around 120.9 mln dlrs , compared with 118.6 mln at the end of April and 141.3 mln at the end of May 1986 , the central bank said . gold reserves were 165.7 mln dlrs at the end of May compared with 124.3 mln at the end of April . Reuter 
<TEST	18810	crude>
its crude oil contract prices by 50 cts a barrel , effective June 17 . The company said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate crude is 19 dlrs a barrel . The price increase follows similar moves by several other companies . Reuter 
<TEST	18835	trade>
United States of violating a political commitment to free trade through practices including a tax on imported gasoline and a customs user fee . EC ambassador Tran Van -Thinh made the formal charge to the surveillance body of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) , GATT spokesman David Woods told reporters . Woods also said the EC was joined by the United States in criticising Brazil for extending its list of products for which import licenses have been temporarily suspended , so as to improve its balance of payments . The United States charged Japan with violating GATT rules by restricting imports of agricultural products through an import licensing system . The United States asked for consultations with Tokyo on the issue . Tran charged that the trade measures contravened a political commitment to halt and reverse trade barriers , pledged by ministers in Punta del Este last September . When ministers established the four year Uruguay round to negotiate freer trade in 13 areas , they set up the GATT surveillance body to monitor this commitment , known in GATT jargon as " standstill and rollback . " Tran criticised Washington for the " superfund " tax on oil imports , a customs user fee , and the removal of a special machine tool ( known as category FSC34 ) from its government procurement list for reasons of national security . Warren Lavorel , a U.S. Trade official , defended the policies , saying they did not violate GATT trade rules . The surveillance body will send a record of today 's talks to the Trade Negotiating Committee , which oversees the round , to decide any further action on the charges . The oil tax and customs user fee have already been the subject of formal GATT dispute panels set up outside the Uruguay Round to rule on the legality of the practices . The ruling GATT Council yesterday adopted a dispute panel 's report and ruled that the U.S. Superfund tax on oil imports breached trade rules . It called on Washington to modify its legislation . Mexico and Canada , along with the European Community , brought the dispute to the GATT last year . Reuter 
<TEST	18840	crude>
deNemours <DD> , said it raised the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel , effective yesterday . The increase brings Conoco 's posted price for West Texas Intermediate to 19.00 dlrs a barrel . The West Texas Sour grade , at 34 API , now stands at 18.10 dlrs a barrel . Light Louisiana was also raised 50 cts to 19.35 dlrs barrel . Conoco last changed its crude postings on May 21 . Reuter 
<TEST	18851	ship>
dockworkers went on strike for an indefinite period today to demand wage increases , a spokesman for the dockers said . The Rio dockers did not get support from their colleagues in Santos , Brazil 's main port , but the spokesman said they would not return to work unless their demands were met . Earlier this week , some 65,000 dockworkers cancelled a scheduled national strike to pressure port officials to give them a wage increase and other benefits . A Rio port spokesman said the halt would cause daily losses of about 100,000 U.S. dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	18857	acq	crude>
has agreed to purchase all of CF Industries Inc 's oil and natural gas properties for about 5,500,000 dlrs , effective July 1 . It said the Louisiana properties had proven reserves at year-end of 11 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 85,000 barrels of oil , condensate and natural gas liquids . Kelley said it currently owns working interests in some of the properties . Reuter 
<TEST	18865	ship>
dockworkers went on strike for an indefinite period today to demand wage increases , a spokesman for the dockers said . The Rio dockers did not get support from their colleagues in Santos , Brazil 's main port , but the spokesman said they would not return to work unless their demands were met . Earlier this week , some 65,000 dockworkers cancelled a scheduled national strike to pressure port officials to give them a wage increase and other benefits . A Rio port spokesman said the halt would cause daily losses of about 100,000 U.S. Dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	18867	trade>
said the U.S. Was unfairly protecting its defence industry , and this could lead to British firms demanding counter-measures . Younger told a U.S. Chamber of Commerce meeting that U.S. Legislators were failing to realise " the true nature of the two-way street in terms of ideas , technology and equipment . A British parliamentary report said that up to March British firms had been awarded just 34 mln dlrs worth of contracts for the Strategic Defence Initiative , compared with the 1.5 billion dlrs Britain had hoped to secure . The committee said U.S. Technology export restrictions and " selectiveness " towards foreign contractors had denied British competitors more lucrative orders and largely excluded them from technological research for SDI. Younger said London had given U.S. Companies contracts under conditions of fair and open competition . " All we ask is for our companies to be given similar opportunitie s , " he added . If new American legislation aimed at curbing unfair subsidies was used to exclude foreign suppliers it would not be surprising if British firms pressed for retaliatory measures , Younger said . REUTER 
<TEST	18896	crude>
purchased interests in four producing oil and gas properties for 2,240,000 shares of the company 's restricted stock . The largest interest was 25 pct of an oil and gas well in Weld County , Colo , the company said . Cheyenne said it had five pct or less interest in the three other properties . Cheyenne said it should realized 10,000 dlrs net income monthly at the properties ' current production levels . Reuter 
<TEST	18899	grain	wheat>
the size of two special export tenders for British and West German feed wheat held in intervention stores and included South Korea as an acceptable destination , traders said . The tender was originally for 120,000 tonnes of British and 120,000 tonnes of West German feed wheat for shipment only to Poland . But now both tranches have been increased by 50,000 tonnes to 170,000 tonnes with South Korea added as a possible destination . Both tenders are open from June 24 . Reuter 
<TEST	18904	interest>
8.59 pct from 8.58 pct last week , Bank of Canada said . The bank rate is set one-quarter percentage point above the average yield on the weekly issue of 91-day treasury bills . This week 's yield was 8.34 pct , compared with the previous week 's 8.33 pct . Tenders were accepted for 2.20 billion dlrs of 91-day bills at an average price of 97.963 dlrs against 97.965 dlrs last week . The 1.20 billion dlrs of 182-day bills were priced at an average 95.852 dlrs against 95.779 dlrs last week , to yield an average 8.68 pct against 8.84 pct last week . The 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills were priced at an average 91.712 dlrs against 91.529 dlrs last week , to yield an average 9.06 pct against 9.28 pct last week . Tenders will be received next week for 2.20 billion dlrs of 91-day bills , 1.20 billion dlrs of 182-day bills and 500 mln dlrs of 364-day bills . Reuter 
<TEST	18908	grain	wheat>
committee rejected all bids for licences to export free market Spanish barley to non-EC countries , trade sources said . The licence requests were for 35,000 tonnes at between 143 and 145 European Currency Units ( ECUs ) , they said . This tender was part of a special tender for 500,000 tonnes of Spanish barley . The sources said there had been no bids for licences for free market soft wheat and non-Spanish barley exports to non-EC countries . Reuter 
<TEST	18954	grain	corn>
corn to its previous commitments , according to the U.S. Agriculture Department 's latest Export Sales report . The report , covering transactions in the week June 11 , the additional corn resulted from changes in destinations . Total corn commitments for delivery in the 1986/87 season amount to 1,083,400 tonnes . Reuter 
<TEST	18973	grain	corn>
controversial mandatory supply control farm bill and said U.S. farmers should be allowed to vote in a referendum whether they approve of the proposal . The Harkin proposal would set loan rates of 5.17 dlrs per bushel for wheat , 3.77 dlrs for corn and 9.32 dlrs for soybeans , all to be put in effect under strict controls on planted acreage reductions . Present loan rates are 2.28 dlrs for wheat , 1.92 for corn , and effectively 4.56 for soybeans . Also under the plan , the U.S. would seek a world market sharing cartel with the European Community and other exporting nations , to share-out export markets , Harkin said during the first of several Senate Agriculture subcommittee hearings examining farm programs . Harkin made the following claims in testimony on his " Family Farm Act . " The mandatory control bill would increase farm income and reduce government spending on agriculture . Harkin said his policy of high price supports would not ruin U.S. agricultural exports as critics claim , but would increase overall revenue from exports . This would be done by seeking agreement among major exporting countries including the European Community on market sharing at agreed high prices . Sen. Christopher Bond , R-Mo. , countered during the hearing that such a grain export cartel is not workable . Harkin acknowledged that higher commodity price supports would be passed onto consumers , but he said high food prices stem more from " gouging " by food processing companies than from high farm product prices . Harkin cited what he termed " excessive " net returns on equity over five years of 33.4 pct at Kellogg , 31.9 pct Mon fort , 22.8 pct Nabisco , 22.8 pct ConAgra , 21.2 pct H.J. Heinz , 19.1 pct Ralston Purina , 17.2 pct Pillsbury and 16.7 pct Quaker Oats . Harkin said a " legitimate " concern about his bill would be the impact of higher prices on livestock producers . He said as a transition to the higher prices , he would allow livestock producers to purchase Commodity Credit Corp. grain stocks for three years . Thereafter , livestock farmers would benefit from a " predictable and stabl e " grain price , he said . Harkin said that under his policy approach farm participation would be no more " mandatory " than the current farm program . He said farmers now must participate in farm programs in order to receive credit for planting and to protect farm income . Reuter 
<TEST	18991	trade>
continue to grow in 1987 , as sales of Japanese goods abroad increase while domestic demand remains sluggish , the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) said . In its latest half-yearly review of the world economy , the OECD said Japan managed to considerably reduce its surplus last year , when domestic demand grew by four pct in 1986 while export markets rose by only two pct . But it said this differential between the growth of domestic and foreign demand would reverse in 1987 and 1988 , " thus weakening the international adjustment process . " It forecast a slowing in domestic growth to little over two pct but with a rise in exports of 3.3 pct in 1987 and 3.6 pct in 1988 . As a result , the current account surplus in 1987 will rise to 95 billion dlrs from 86 billion in 1986 , although in 1988 it should fall back to 87 billion dlrs . The OECD outlook did not take account of the 6,000 billion yen package announced last month to stimulate domestic demand and increase imports to Japan . However , OECD officials said the measures will significantly strengthen domestic demand , quite possibly exceeding one pct GNP when the full effects have worked through , and thus will provide some stimulus to imports . The OECD outlook said , " Continued large current account surpluses and the further build-up of an already-substantial net external asset position could well lead to upward pressure on the yen . " It said that further appreciation could then lead manufacturers to postpone their investment plans and thus weaken domestic growth . The OECD said Japan 's Gross National Product was likely to gorw an annual two pct in 1987 and 1988 , below 1986 's 2.5 pct growth . But it said Japan would continue its good performance on inflation , with a zero figure expected in 1987 compared to a 0.6 pct rise in consumer prices last year . Reuter 
<TEST	18992	trade>
the two nations are unable to reach a free trade pact , according to a study published by two nonpartisan public policy research groups . The Cato Institute of Washington and the Fraser Institute of Vancouver said removing the remaining tariffs on cross border trade would benefit both countries . But Cato chairman William Niskanen added " the two nations ' generally harmonious trade relations are probably not sustainable without a new agreement . " The United States and Canada , whose cross-border trade totaled about 125 billion dlrs last year , have been holding talks since last June on a pact to end the few trade barriers remaining between their two countries . The U.S. put a deadline on the talks of October 1 , but both sides have said an agreement is likely despite tough bargaining remained . Niskanen said if no pact is reached , bilateral trade ties could deteriorate because of Congressional pressure on President Reagan to implement trade laws more aggressively , and this could hit some Canadian trade practices . He noted Canada is seeking foreign investment in its auto industry , which could put strains on the considerable bilateral free trade in U.S. and Canadian autos and parts . Niskanen also said the Canadian government is vulnerable to a resurgence of economic nationalism which could restrict U.S. exports to Canada . A free trade pact , backed by President Reagan and Prime Minister Brian Mulroney , would open new markets for Canada and enable its industries to achieve economies of scale , which would also help it widen exports worldwide , he said . It would also increase the gross national products of both countries . Niskanen said the goal of a pact should be to end all tariffs within 10 years , lower subsidies on exports , set rules for trade in services and investments , end curbs on government procurement and agree ways to resolve trade disputes . Reuter 
<TEST	19022	interest>
Group Ltd <ANZA.S> said it will cut its prime rate to 16.00 pct from 16.50 , effective June 22 . The cut takes the ANZ 's prime to the lower end of the range of prime rates being offered by Australian trading banks . The highest rate is 17.50 pct . The cut follows announcements of cuts yesterday by <Citibank Ltd> to 16.00 pct from 16.5 , effective today , and <Commonwealth Bank of Australia > to 15.75 pct from 16.25 , effective June 24 . REUTER 
<TEST	19023	money-fx>
financial institutions to limit speculative dollar dealings , Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told reporters . He was responding to rumours in the New York currency market overnight that the Ministry was reducing its pressure on institutions to refrain from excessively speculative dollar dealings . REUTER 
<TEST	19028	money-fx>
Federal Reserve is guiding monetary policy along a steady path and is not signalling any imminent change of course , economists said . But they also said that if money supply growth remains weak , as this week 's unexpected eight billion dlr M-1 decline suggests it may , this could influence the Fed to loosen its credit reins and move toward a more accommodative monetary policy . A Reuter survey of 17 money market economists produced a forecast of a 600 mln dlr M-1 decline for the week ended June 8 , with estimates ranging from a gain of one billion dlrs to a decline of four billion . Instead , M-1 fell eight billion dlrs to 745.7 billion dlrs at a seasonally adjusted annual rate . Coming on the heels of a 4.3 billion decrease in M-1 for the week ended June 1 , this means the nation 's money supply has fallen more than 12 billion dlrs in the past two weeks , economists said . " M-1 has hit an air pocket of weakness , " said Bill Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. While M-1 may have lost its significance as an indicator of economic growth , Sullivan said Fed officials might be concerned the latest drop in M-1 means another month of sluggish growth in the broader monetary aggregates , M-2 and M-3 , which are seen as better gauges of economic growth . Latest monthly M-2 and M-3 data showed that as of May , both measures were growing at rates below the bottom of the Fed 's 5-1/2 to 8-1/2 pct target ranges . If money growth does not accelerate , Fed officials , concerned that this indicates economic growth is flagging , could turn toward easier monetary policy , economists said . " D oes this mean that the Fed abandons its current open market position ? No , " Sullivan said . " But does this mean the end of tightening for the time being ? Definitely yes . " Economists said average adjusted discount window borrowings of 385 mln dlrs for the latest two-week bank statement period were lower than they had expected . Most believed the Fed had targetted a two-week borrowings average of around 500 mln dlrs . But they said that if it had not been for a large one-day net miss in the Fed 's reserve projections , the higher borrowings target would probably have been reached . A drop in May U.S. Housing starts and continued weakness in auto sales show key sectors of the U.S. Economy are lagging , while a recent modest 0.3 pct gain in May producer prices has helped dispel inflation fears , Slifer said . " If this continues , we can entertain the notion of Fed easing at some point , " he said . Other economists said the Fed would probably pay little attention to weak money supply growth . " It has been a number of years since M-1 has given good signs of what 's going on in the economy ," one said . " I do n't think M-1 shows that the economy is falling apart and the Fed should ease . " Economists agreed a stable dollar will continue to be a prerequisite for any move by the Fed toward easier monetary policy . They said the Fed is reluctant to lower short-term rates for fear this would spur expectations of a weaker dollar and higher inflation which would push up long-term yields and choke off econmomic growth . But Sullivan said the dollar has been steady since late April . " The Fed has to determine if this represents a fundamental change for the dollar . If it does , then this gives them more room to ease , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	19033	trade>
warned members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) they could no longer rely on increased exports to the U.S. For growth . " Given the importance of exports , particularly export manufactures , to all of your countries , you are going to have to work hard to diversify your markets , " he said . " While you may be able to maintain your current market share in the U.S. , You clearly will not be able to look to the U.S. To take major increases in your exports , " he added . Shultz told the foreign ministers of Brunei , Indonesia , Malaysia , the Philippines , Singapore and Thailand the U.S. Would cut its huge foreign trade deficit more rapidly than many now believed . He said ASEAN 's looming trade problems would not necessarily stem from protectionist legislation now being contemplated by Congress , " but simply because of the adjustments the U.S. Economy will have to make in order to service our large and growing external debt . " Shultz said the U.S. Deficit had resulted not from falling exports but from higher imports that had fuelled world growth . REUTER 
<TEST	19040	money-fx>
inflow have temporarily helped to slow the rise of Taiwan 's foreign exchange reserves and to stabilise the local dollar against the U.S. Currency , officials and bankers said . Central bank governor Chang Chi-Cheng told reporters the reserves rose only about 500 mln U.S. Dlrs in the past two weeks and the local dollar appreciated more slowly against the U.S. Dollar . Chang said , " The pace of increase in our reserves is much slower now than before and our currency is getting more stabl e . " He said the reserves , mainly the result of the trade surplus with the U.S. , Rose at the rate of two to three billion U.S. Dlrs a month between January and May . The reserves , the world 's third largest after Japan and West Germany , now total well over 60 billion U.S. Dlrs . On June 2 the central bank froze overseas borrowings of local and foreign banks and cut the limit on central bank purchases of forward U.S. Dollars from banks to 40 pct from 90 pct of the value of a contract . Local and foreign bankers said the June 2 measures had drastically limited their ability to lend foreign exchange to importers and exporters . They said their overseas borrowings and forward dollar transactions showed a drastic decline with some banks registering a fall of up to 30 pct . Bank dealers said the Taiwan dollar has stabilised against the U.S. Currency this week after rising two to five Taiwanese cents a day between June 2 and 13 compared with a rise of five to eight cents in May . The bank dealers said the central bank , which had previously bought U.S. Dollars heavily , sold at least 1.1 billion U.S. Dlrs in the past two weeks to meet commercial demand . They said they expected the government to keep the local dollar stable in the near term to give breathing space to businesses experiencing slower exports because of the rise of more than 23 pct in the value of the Taiwan dollar since September 1985 . The Taiwan dollar opened at 31.09 to the U.S. Dollar today , unchanged from yesterday . Keh Fei-Lo , vice president of First Commercial Bank , said , " It appears the central bank 's move to curb the capital inflow is quite successful . " Vice economic minister Wang Chien-Shien said the slower rise in foreign exchange reserves would help ease pressure from Washington over the large U.S. Trade deficit with Taiwan . Over the past year Taiwanese businessmen have delayed imports of machinery and production equipment because of exchange rate uncertainty , he said . The stable exchange rate would help boost imports , particularly from the United States . REUTER 
<TEST	19044	trade>
narrowed to 1.61 billion dlrs in the first 10 days of June from 1.97 billion a year earlier , the Finance Ministry said . The June interim surplus compares with a 1.76 billion dlr surplus in the same May period . FOB exports in the first 10 days of June rose 17.6 pct from a year earlier to 6.05 billion dlrs while CIF imports rose 39.6 pct to 4.44 billion . The average yen/dollar rate used for the figures was 141.04 yen against 169.03 a year earlier . REUTER 
<TEST	19055	ship	grain>
foodgrains at Chittagong port following a strike by nearly 1,000 dockw orkers , Bangladesh Shipping Corp officials said . The navy was unloading 74,000 tonnes of foodgrains from two ships today , and four vessels laden with some 90,000 tonnes of grains were waiting at the outer anchorage , port officials said . A spokesman for the workers said they would continue their strike until authorities agree to their demands for higher pay and other benefits . The strike began on June 11 . " Unloading of grains and other essential commodities started normally after we called in navy personnel to help , " a port official told Reuters . " The strike has caused no serious dislocation , " he said . The government meanwhile declared the port jobs an " essential service " and said the strikers could be dismissed unless they end the strike soon . REUTER 
<TEST	19059	grain>
rice price if the official producer price is reduced next month , Tetsuo Kondo , director general of the government 's Economic Planning Agency ( EPA ) , told reporters . Kondo said after a cabinet meeting that consumers should receive the benefits of the falling costs of rice farming due to the strong yen and lower oil prices . Agriculture Ministry sources said the producer rice price paid to rice farmers would be cut after discussions by the Rice Price Council , an advisory body to the ministry , on July 1 and 2 . The consumer rice price is usually set in December . REUTER 
<TEST	19061	money-fx>
value of the yen against the dollar if Japan , the U.S. And other nations succeeded in restructuring their economies , an advisory panel to the government 's Economic Planning Agency ( EPA ) said . The advisory body said in its report that the yen would soar against the dollar if structural adjustments on a global basis were delayed . An EPA official told Reuters the dollar could fall to slightly below 100 yen by 1993 if Japan and the U.S. Failed to restructure their economies . The dollar 's fall without structural adjustments would cut Japan 's current account surplus to two pct of gross national product ( G NP ) in 1993 , the report said . It said such a change would slow real GNP growth to an average of two pct annually during the seven-year period to 1993 . If the two nations restructured their economies , the dollar would remain stable in real terms , while reducing Japan 's current-account surplus to 2.1 pct of GNP in 1993 . This scenario put Japan 's GNP growth at 3.5 pct a year . It forecast real growth of three pct for the world economy and four pct for Japan by 2,000 if the adjustments were made . REUTER 
<TEST	19062	trade>
surplus or the yen will come under renewed upward pressure , Economic Planning Minister Tetsuo Kondo . He told a press luncheon he hoped Japan could cut its current account surplus by some 10 billion dlrs a year until it is reduced to some 50 to 60 billion dlrs . In the fiscal year ended March 31 the surplus totalled 93.76 billion dlrs , or about 4.5 pct of GNP . The 6,000 billion yen economic stimulation package the government unveiled late last month would help slash Japan 's current account surplus by five to six billion dlrs , he said . REUTER 
<TEST	19069	crude>
to renew its one-year contract with Abu Dhabi for 480,000 tonnes of Upper Zakum crude oil , CPC officials told Reuters . They said CPC made the recommendation to the cabinet and is now awaiting its approval . CPC 's one-year contract with Abu Dhabi expired on May 31 this year and it wants the renewed contract to begin on June 1 at the government selling price . Delivery will be determined in the course of the year . Last year , shipments were in three parcels of 120,000 tonnes each and four of 30,000 tonnes each . CPC officials also said the company agreed with the Egyptian government for the supply of 240,000 tonnes of Gulf of Suez crude for delivery in two shipments this year at the government selling price . Last year , CPC bought 120,000 tonnes Gulf of Suez through C.Itoh . Officials said plans to buy 240,000 tonnes of Basra Light from Iraq have not been finalised yet because of several constraints . CPC said it could not accept 120,000 tonne parcels and proposed to lift 30,000 tonnes in eight shipments . Iraq National Oil Co ( IN OC ) told CPC a Red Sea port where lifting was to take place could not accept small ships . INOC then proposed to deliver eight shipments of 30,000 tonnes each . CPC said INOC planned to ship the oil to an Indian port for delivery of Indian requirements , later going to Colombo to offload CPC 's needs , but CPC considered this unsuitable . CPC said it had not received a reply from INOC since December . Sri Lanka imports all its annual needs of 1.7 mln tonnes . This year it plans to buy 400,000 tonnes on the spot market compared with about 1.3 mln tonnes last year . REUTER 
<TEST	19073	ship>
Marine Corp> , Taiwan 's largest private company , has applied to the Security and Exchange Commission to go public next month , a company spokeswoman told Reuters . She said Evergreen had doubled its capital to eight billion Taiwan dlrs since last August . " The capital increase will boost our operations , " she said . She said Evergreen will use the funds raised from the stock market to buy new ships and step up its global services . The spokeswoman said the company posted an after-tax profit of more than one billion dlrs last year on total revenues of 20.46 billion , compared to an after-tax profit of 1.18 billion on revenues of 17.99 billion in 1985 . Evergreen has placed newbuilding orders for three 3,428-teu ( twenty-foot equivalent unit ) fully cellular container ships with the state-owned <China Shipbuilding Corp> for delivery in late 1988 . Evergreen has a fleet of 66 container vessels , totalling more than two mln dwt , the spokeswoman said . REUTER 
<TEST	19092	ship>
employees protesting against a government pay offer disrupted transport and hit ferry services and shipping , port and union officials said . Some cross-Channel ferry services from Ostend were cancelled , the local news agency Belga said . An Antwerp port authority spokesman said electricians came out in support , reducing ship movements to a trickle . Unions said Ghent and other major Belgian ports were also hit . Few trains were running and some early morning flights by Sabena , Belgian 's national airline , were cancelled . Reuter 
<TEST	19097	ship>
after a 23 year break caused by the ideological split between the two countries . The New China News Agency said an agreement to resume the business was signed by the two sides on Wednesday in Shanghai , where three Soviet commercial vessels were being repaired . The China Daily said the first two Soviet ships to be repaired in China since 1964 left the ports of Dalian and Xingang last month . Bi Yueran , managing director of China State Shipbuilding Corp 's ship repair department , told the newspaper the Soviet Union lacked adequate repair facilities for the more than 600 ships deployed in the far east . Bi said China 's yards offered competitive prices , guaranteed quality and prompt delivery . Reuter 
<TEST	19110	crude>
Arabia increased in 1986 despite higher oil output , according to the kingdom 's main producing company , Aram co . Recoverable oil reserves in Aramco fields rose to 167 billion barrels by the end the year from 166.5 billion in 1985 , while gas reserves jumped by 7.7 pct to 135.8 trillion cu ft from 126.1 trillion , the company 's annual report said . Aramco , responsible for all Saudi production except about 200,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) in the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait , increased production to 4.69 mln barrels per day in 1986 from 3.04 mln barrels a year earlier . Most of 1986 was a virtual free-for-all in production , as OPEC members abandoned restraint in an effort to recapture their share of the market . In the process , prices collapsed from about 28 dlrs a barrel to below nine dlrs , until the organisation decided to cut production again from last September onwards . Saudi output in 1985 had been the lowest since the 1960s . Production of natural gas liquids in 1986 declined slightly to 304,178 bpd from 316,310 , said the report , carried on the official Saudi Press Agency . The increase in reserves came despite a sharp cut in the number of wells Aramco drilled to 33 in 1986 from 103 in 1985 . Aramco 's only refinery , at Ras Tannurah , processed 142.44 mln barrels ( 390,246 bpd ) of crude last year . The plant was upgraded to a capacity of 530,000 bpd during the year , enabling it to supply 50 pct of local demand for oil products , the report said . The country 's other five , smaller refineries owned by another state-owned oil organisation , Petromin produced around 750,000 bpd last year . Sulphur production rose to 1.23 mln tonnes in 1986 from 998,707 tonnes in 1985 . During the year the company began operating a sulphur granule plant with capacity of 4,000 tonnes per day , the report said . Aramco said it awarded 1,303 contracts last year worth 1.4 billion riyals about 370 mln dlrs . REUTER 
<TEST	19122	ship>
were hiring twice the usual number of dockers to offset an intermittent strike in Spanish ports . Spanish dockers began a nine-day strike on Wednesday in which they only work alternate hours in protest at government plans to partially privatize port services . Reuter 
<TEST	19128	crude>
said he expects next week 's ministerial meeting in Vienna to be brief and calm and that OPEC 's current price and production agreement may only need a slight review . " I expect the meeting in Vienna to be short and calm , " Lu kman , who is also Nigerian oil minister , told reporters here ahead of his departure on Sunday for the conference , which starts June 25 . " We already have an agreement which may need only a slight review , " Lukman said . The agreement reached at a long session of OPEC ministers in December last year pegged the group 's crude oil output at 15.8 mln bpd for first half 1987 at fixed prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel . Since then prices have risen from 15 dlrs in December to just above the official OPEC levels , with oil industry analysts firmly convinced the organisation will maintain the agreement to keep the market stable . " I myself believe that OPEC will tend to take a position to strengthen the gains we have made so far , " Lukman said . He declined to say if the current ceiling should be maintained or raised to 16.6 mln bpd for the third quarter and 18.3 mln for the fourth as provisionally agreed last December . " Whatever decision we arrive at will be guided by our collective will to keep the market strong , " he said . He said non-OPEC member Norway , which he visited two weeks ago , had pledged further cooperation with the group and this was significant for its members . Lukman said heavy destocking by consumers early this year when OPEC 's fixed price regime came into effect and a restocking now for the winter was responsible for current market strength . Reuter 
<TEST	19163	trade>
House-passed trade bill requiring mandatory retaliation for " unfair trade " if it reached its desk in its present form . In a statement at a White House meeting with Senate Republicans on the legislation , he said " I would have no choice but to veto that bill in its present form . " He said the measure " would move us exactly in the wrong directio n " towards high tariffs , trade barriers , trade distorting subsidies , slow growth and crimped world markets , and would destroy jobs . Reuter 
<TEST	19165	grain	corn>
imports due to crop problems caused by unusually dry weather , the official Ghana News Agency ( GNA ) reported today . Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning Kwesi Botchwey made the announcement last night while accepting 7,891 tonnes of rice worth about four mln dlrs under a Japanese food aid programme . The lifting of the ban , imposed earlier this year , follows government concern over " lower than average rainfall in southern Ghana and its implications for the major harvest . " Botchwey said rain has been lacking in major cereal growing areas throughout the south this year . The Ministry of Agriculture has predicted a fall of at least 25 pct in all major staple crops including maize , rice and cassava . GNA quoted Botchwey as saying that while the consequences of current reduced rainfall will be nowhere near the drought experiences of 1982/83 the government has taken steps to alleviate anticipated food production shortfalls . The failure of seasonal rains has already seriously affected drinking water supplies , farming and fishing in parts of the Central and Volta regions of Ghana where rivers have dried up . Reuter 
<TEST	19167	interest>
Leigh-Pemberton said lowering interest rates too fast could jeopardise recent economic achievements in the U.K. In remarks prepared for delivery to businessmen in Birmingham , he said prospective returns on real investment are more favourable , relative to those on financial assets , than for a good number of years . " It would surely be foolish to put that favourable conjuncture at risk by lowering interest rates prematurely or excessively , " he said . " We might enjoy a short-term boost to activity , but at the risk of a damaging return to the uncertainty and acrimony of high inflation , " he added . Leigh-Pemberton said he recognised there are some who would argue that interest rates are still too high and deter investment in industry . " But we should not forget that less than a year ago we were intervening to support sterling and had some temporary difficulty in persuading the markets that a one pct increase in base rates , to 11 pct , was a sufficient tightening of policy at the time ," he added . Base rate is currently nine pct . REUTER 
<TEST	19169	grain	wheat>
Community open market tenders for wheat and barley until EC farm ministers agree to the 1987/88 farm price package , trade sources said . The failure of farm ministers this week to come to an agreement resulted in no bids at this week 's tender for export subsidies and traders said bids are unlikely as long as the uncertainty remains . One trader said permanent damage to export prospects can be avoided if an agreemend can be reached soon , but the situation will become more serious as time passes . However , traders said there seem to be few buyers around , lessening the disruptive impact of the delay . Poland and South Korea , who are in the market for feed wheat , will be offered intervention grain through special tenders , traders said . Reuter 
<TEST	19191	interest>
fixed interest rate mortgages under which the borrower makes the same monthly payment no matter what happens to other interest rates . And with mortgage rates now at their lowest levels in years , the loans have been snapped up by eager home buyers trying to lock into cheap money . The decision to offer fixed rate loans , industry officials said , reflects the increasingly competitive nature of the home mortgage business . While fixed rate mortgages are uncommon in the U.K. , They were the mainstay of the business in the U.S. Up until only a few years ago . But in the early 1980s interest rates soared . U.S. Lenders , mostly savings and loan associations , were earning rates as low as three pct on 30 year fixed rate mortgages they held in their portfolios but had to pay depositors rates as high as 15 pct to induce them to retain their accounts . As a result hundreds of institutions collapsed or were forced to merge . The survivors decided to offer mortgages whose rates would move in line with the cost of funds . " We very much have the example of the U.S. Thrifts in mind , " said a spokesman for Abbey National Building Society , explaining why his institution , for the time being , is only offering variable rate mortgages . The rash of advertising to solicit new business has helped homebuyers to become even choosier about loans and lenders concede they are being forced to undercut each other still more . Sharp cuts on variable rate mortgages announced earlier this week by the nation 's two largest building societies and by National Westminster Bank Plc reflect growing competition for new business , officials at all three institutions said . The fixed rate mortgages on offer carry interest rates even below those on the variable rate loans . " Of course they are less profitable than other ( variable rate ) mortgages , " said a spokesman for Midland Bank Pl c , which earlier this year said it earmarked 500 mln dlrs for fixed rate new mortgage loans . But he said the bank is willing to offer less profitable loans because , " It was just another way to attract people to our mortgage product . " Trustee Savings Bank Plc ( TSB ) was offering five year fixed rate mortgages at 9.9 pct earlier this year . The 100 mln stg that TSB set aside for the loans was exhausted within just a few days , according to a spokeswoman . " Everybody loves an under 10 pct mortgage , " she said , noting that within five days the bank loaned the equivalent of 25 pct of its 1986 volume . In short , the appeal of fixed rate mortgages is that they offer an opportunity to gamble on the direction of interest rates . If interest rates fall after the mortgage is made the lender is earning an above average return on assets . But if interest rates rise it is the homebuyer who has won the benefit of cheap money . Household Mortgage Co had planned to offer a 25 year fixed rate mortgage after the June 11 elections on the assumption that a Conservative Party victory would help money market rates fall further , according to Duncan Young , managing director . Young explained that the company had planned to protect itself against the chance of rising interest rates by buying a complicated hedging instrument . But money market rates have risen contrary to expectations and the company has shelved its plans for the time being . He said money market rates were too high to arrange both the mortgages and hedge profitably . However , he said that when the Household Mortgage Co does make fixed rate mortgages it is likely to securitise them . This means bundling different mortgages together to resemble a bond and selling them to an investor . For technical reasons securitisation is simpler and more efficient with fixed rate rather than with floating rate mortgages . In the U.S. , Where fixed rate mortgages are popular again , securitisation has provided the bulk of mortgage money over the past few years . REUTER 
<TEST	19193	crude>
will raise postings for its Edmonton/Swann Hills crude by 24 canadian cts a barrel , effective June 20 . The company said the new posting for Edmonton/Swann Hills will be 25.60 dlrs a barrel . The price hike follows a round of crude oil price increases started late June 17 by Sun Co. The other major canadian crude suppliers raised prices June 18 . Reuter 
<TEST	19199	ship>
heavy rain are delaying an operation near Karlsruhe to raise two sunken boats which have blocked the river 's main navigation channel since early last week , a Karlsruhe water authority spokesman said . He said two floating cranes were unable to begin lifting the sunken tug Orinoko and its lighter because the water level had reached 815 centimetres and was forecast to rise to 820-830 cm by tomorrow . He was unable to say when the operation might begin . Meanwhile , high water at Cologne has forced vessels to travel at reduced speed , a water authority spokesman in Cologne said . But a water authority spokesman in Duisburg , 60 kms north of Cologne , said vessels there were moving normally . Reuter 
<TEST	19201	interest	money-fx>
temporary reserves to the banking system this morning by executing system repurchase agreements , economists said . The Fed faces a need to add a large volume of reserves this statement period to offset a drain caused by rising Treasury balances at the Fed after the June 15 tax date . Most economists are predicting over-the-weekend system repurchases . But some , who see a smaller adding requirement , are forecasting a less aggressive combination of three and six-day repos . Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct , close to yesterday 's 6.81 pct average . Reuter 
<TEST	19213	grain	wheat>
French soft wheat for August to December shipment at 76.70 dlrs per tonne fob with COFACE export credit , trade sources said . This is the second French soft wheat export sale for the 1987/88 season which starts on July 1 and follows a Brazilian purchase of 150,000 tonnes . France sold around 300,000 tonnes of soft wheat to Tunisia during the 1986/87 season . Reuter 
<TEST	19237	money-fx	interest>
government securities market to arrange six-day repurchase agreements for system account , a spokeswoman for the New York Fed said . Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct at the time of the direct injection of temporary reserves , dealers said . Economists had expected three or six-day repurchases because the Fed needs to add a large volume of reserves this statement period . Reuter 
<TEST	19238	ship>
may take some three weeks to lift the Swiss tug Orinoko and its lighter Pavo which sank 10 days ago at Karlsruhe in West Germany , blocking the Rhine river . Smit -Tak , which with its West German subsidiary Harms Bergung GmbH was commissioned by the local water authorities to raise the vessels , said its lifting fleet was in position and divers had made the first inspection . Smit is still preparing its final salvage plan and said the work would begin on Sunday . Reuter 
<TEST	19273	trade>
Southern Africa have agreed to cut tariffs on regional trade by 10 pct every two years up to 1996 . A statement by the Preferential Trade Area ( PTA ) , which seeks to create a common market stretching from Ethiopia in the north to Lesotho in the south , said the governments would make the first tariff cut next year . In 1996 they would assess the impact of the tariff reductions and work out a new timetable for the complete elimination of all barriers to trade by the year 2000 . The PTA , set up in 1982 , groups Burnudi , the Comoros , Djibouti , Ethiopia , Kenya , Lesotho , Malawi , Mauritius , Rwanda , Somalia , Swaziland , Tanzania , Uganda , Zambia and Zimbabwe . PTA sources said the agreement averted a split between members wanting more progress towards free trade and weaker states concerned about the effects on customs revenue . The reductions cover only a common list of 300 or so widely traded commodities and goods but PTA sources said the organisation planned to expand the list to include 425 items . Reuter 
<TEST	19275	grain	wheat>
deterioration in Saskatchewan crops , according to the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool 's weekly crop report . Rain was needed in the southwest , west-central and northeast regions , and other regions were expected to need rain soon . Summerfallow crops were in fair to good condition , while stubble crops were rated fair to poor . Wheat , durum , oats and barley crops were all one-p ct headed , rye was 40 pct in the milk stage and winter wheat was 21 pct milk stage . Flax was 51 pct tillering , and canola was 58 pct tillering . Areas of the southern grain belt were hit by high winds and hail Tuesday , with some damage reported . Reuter 
<TEST	19285	crude>
highest level in more than a year ahead of next week 's OPEC meeting , even though most industry analysts do not expect any policy changes from the session . They said prices , which have steadily climbed since the organization 's accord in December , have risen on technical factors within the market and concerns about supplies because of the Iran-Iraq war , which could disrupt deliveries from the Gulf . The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate is trading around 20.55 dlrs in the July contract on New York Mercantile Exchange 's energy futures and in the spot market . That is its highest level since January 1986 . OPEC conference president Rilwanu Lu kman , who is Nigeria 's oil minister , said Friday he expects the meeting in Vienna to be brief and calm and that OPEC 's current price and production agreement may only need a slight review . Although most industry experts expect just a reaffirmation of the December agreement , oil prices continue to climb due to a desire to hedge positions in case of any surprises . Analysts expect the higher prices to continue until soon after the OPEC meeting . At that point , barring any increased tension in the Gulf or changes in OPEC 's policies , prices should begin easing . " OPEC will probably not do anything it has n't already agreed to in December because oil prices are firm , " said John Hill , a vice president at Merrill Lynch Futures . OPEC agreed in December to maintain official oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel and raise the group 's production ceiling to 16.6 mln barrels per day in the third quarter and to 18.3 mln barrels in the fourth quarter . This agreement helped send prices sharply higher , rising from 15 dlrs a barrel in early December . Several OPEC members who are price hawks , including Iran , Algeria and Libya , will seek a higher official price and a reduction in output . " And if U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude continues to trade above 20 dlrs a barrel , there is a greater chance that OPEC will raise its official 18 dlrs price , " said Nauman Barakat , analyst at Smith Barney , Harris Upham and Co. But most analysts expect the more moderate producers , such as Saudi Arabia , to block any changes in policy . " The meeting will be a non-event with no change in the official prices because OPEC , and in particular the Saudis , are committed to stabilizing the market ," said Rosario Ilacqua , analyst with L.F. Rothschild . However , some analysts said OPEC may need to hold a meeting in September to re-evaluate market conditions . Overproduction by OPEC will become a real problem in the fourth quarter when the quota is raised to 18.3 mln barrels a day and Iraq 's pipeline through Turkey brings another 500,000 barrels to the market each day , said John Lichtblau , president of Petroleum Industry Ressearch Foundation . Most expect Saudi Arabia to oppose a price increase at this meeting but many look for an increase by year-end to 20 dlrs to offset the decline in the dollar . Oil prices are denominated throughout the world in dollars , so as the currency declines , producers receive less money for their oil . " The only real production restraint in OPEC is Saudi Arabia , " said Sanford Margoshes , analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers . " In the second half of the year we expect the Saudis not to produce at their 4.1 mln barrel a day quota and therefore act as a vehicle to stablize the market and pave the way for a two dlrs a barrel price increase at the December 1987 meeting , " he said . One uncertain factor is the course of the Iran-Iraq war . " The wild card is the increased tensions in the Persian Gulf , " said Frank Knuettel , analyst with Prudential-Bache Securites . Oil tankers taking oil from Iraq and Kuwait have been regular targets for Iranian planes . The Reagan administration is planning to put Kuwait tankers under the protection of the U.S. flag , with naval escorts . " Extra ( oil ) inventories are needed during a time of crisis like this , and just general nervousness over an incident that could disrupt oil supplies drives prices up ," Knuettel said . Reuter 
<TEST	19291	crude>
Treasury Department that it will not include fluidized bed combustion technology , a method for the more efficient burning of solids , at its Parachute Creek oil shale project in Colorado due to high costs . Under a 1985 agreement with the now-defunct U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp , Unocal said it would study using the technology at the oil shale plant . In return the company would have been eligible for 500 mln dlrs in loan gaurantees and price supports from the U.S. Treasury Department , which took over the contract from the Synthetic Fuels Corp , Unocal said . Unocal said its studies showed the cost for the fluidized bed combustion facility would have exceeded 352 mln dlrs , compared with an original estimate of 260 mln dlrs . The fluidized bed facility would have provided heat and electricity for the oil shale project , Unocal said . Last year 's fall in oil prices and the loss of investment tax credit under the Tax Reform Act made the project uneconomical even with government price supports and loan guarantees , Unocal said . The Parachute Creek oil shale plant produces about 4,000 to 5,000 barrels per day of crude shale oil , Unocal said . Reuter 
<TEST	19293	trade>
early this month will delay the publication of May 's U.K. Overseas trade figures , which had been due out next Thursday , a Trade and Industry Department statement said . A department spokesman said the figures will probably be put back by about a month . The June trade figures , due in late July , will also be delayed , he added . REUTER 
<TEST	19322	grain	wheat>
of French wheat at tender , a Brazilian Wheat Board spokesman said . He said the Board accepted offers for 25,000 tonnes of wheat from grain firm J. Souffle at 80.49 dlrs per tonne Fob for August shipment . For September shipment , the Board bought 25,000 tonnes from Graniere at 79.32 dlrs per tonne Fob , and for October shipment it accepted 25,000 tonnes from Andre and Companie at 79.47 dlrs per tonne Fob . The next tender , for Aug/Sept/Oct shipment , was set for June 24 , the spokesman said . Reuter 
<TEST	19377	trade>
Caribbean nations formally opposed trade legislation pending in Congress , saying it would curb their exports , slow development and hinder its ability to repay foreign debt . Mario Rodriguez Montero , president of an Organization of American States special committee on trade , said he was aware of the large U.S. trade deficit , but added " the region should not be the one affected by the trade bills . " He said the causes of the deficit were the strong dollar and the budget deficit , and " it is regrettable to solve it by a trade bill that would only serve private U.S. interests . " Rodriguez made the comment at a news conference after two days of meetings with U.S. officials on trade bills now in Congress that are designed to reduce the U.S. trade deficit , which last year hit a record 166.3 billion dlrs . Congressional observers say the bills are aimed mainly at Japan , Taiwan , South Korea and a few other nations with large , annual trade surpluses with the United States . Mexico , Brazil and Venezuela are the only Latin nations with large trade surpluses last year with the United States , but even Mexico , with the largest , had a surplus of only 5.2 billion dlrs , against Japan 's of 58.6 billion dlrs . The European Community has also opposed the bills . Rodriguez said the Latin and Caribbean nations backed the Reagan Administration 's opposition to many of the sections in the legislation , including those to curb imports and to require retaliation for foreign unfair trade practices . He told reporters the committee would likely mount a campaign to fight the legislation when it comes up for debate on the Senate floor , expected next week . Rodriguez said " the region needs trade to continue development . We hope this need will not be affected negatively by trade legislation . " Rodriguez said " we need to keep the market opens especially the U.S. market to obtain the necessary foreign exchange not only to service the debt but also to continue national development progress . " President Reagan has said he would veto any legislation he termed " protectionist , " and his aides now are mounting a effort to water down some of the objectionable provisions in the legislation . Asked whether Reagan was ready to cast a veto , Rodriguez said as yet " the administration is not in a veto frame of mind . " reuter 
<TEST	19388	grain>
( CCC ) has reallocated 1.3 mln dlrs in credit guarantees originally granted to cover the sale of protein meals to El Salvador so it may buy rice , the U.S. Agriculture Department said . The action reduces the guarantee line authorized for sales of protein meals to 12.7 mln dlrs and creates a rice credit guarantee line of 1.3 mln dlrs , the department said . All sales under the credit guarantee lines must be registered and exports completed by September 30 , the department said . Reuter 
<TEST	19397	crude>
changed in the past week , barely affected by the excitement on the advent of OPEC 's mid-year meeting , traders and industry sources said . " If the OPEC decides to increase crude oil production , " a traders said , " LPG supplies will be up without corresponding rise in demand . " Petrochemical buyers were sidelined , after their foray in the market early in june , they said . An industry meeting in Dublin this week also drew many market participants away from the trading desk , they added . Algeria has moved at least two cargoes of propane to the U.S. Gulf , keeping Mediterranean prices steady , traders said . In the Mideast Gulf , propane appeared easing slightly , after a major U.S. oil company bought propane on formula which netted back about 123 dlrs , cif Mideast Gulf , which was two dlrs below Saudi Arabia 's government selling price ( g sp ) , industry sources said . Delivered propane to Japan was quoted at gsp plus 19 dlrs and butane at gsp plus 25 dlrs , the traders said . Reuter 
<TEST	19403	ship	crude>
discussing plans to lease privately-owned U.S. tankers to transport oil through the Gulf in addition to putting some of its own vessels under American flags . State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley , who made the disclosure about the tankers , also told reporters the United States expects to conclude very soon a favorable arrangement with Saudi Arabia concerning expanded security cooperation in the Gulf . The two developments occur as the Reagan administration continued to come under fire in Congress for its plans to bring 11 Kuwaiti tankers under American flags . The move is designed to protect the tankers from Iranian attacks and ensure freedom of navigation in the strategic waterway but has raised fears on Capitol Hill that it will draw the United States into the seven-year-old Iran-Iraq War . " The Kuwaitis have discussed the possibility of chartering U.S. flag vessels with the Maritime Administration , " Oakley said . She emphasized , however , that " if some charter arrangement could be worked out , it would not supplant the reflagging arrangement that we worked out with the Kuwaitis . " In both cases , the ships would be eligible for U.S. Navy escort in the Gulf , she said . The Washington Post today quoted John Gaughan , administrator of the Martime Administration , as saying Kuwait has approached an American shipping company about the possibility of a charter . Gaughan said that earlier this week he told representatives of the company , whose identify he did not know , that chartered vessels flying the U.S. flag " would be protected , " the newspaper reported . Concerning Saudi Arabia , Oakley said " we are moving forward in our talks on how we can tailor our efforts and security cooperation to facilitate our Gulf operations . " Reuter 
<TEST	19418	money-fx>
U.S. banks , excluding acceptances , fell 896 mln dlrs to 275.61 billion in the week ended June 10 , the Federal Reserve Board said . The Fed said that business loans including acceptances fell 546 mln dlrs to 278.12 billion dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	19419	acq>
Wohl Kram said she would rule Monday on whether to grant a request to block a 78 dlr per share merger agreement between Burlington Industries Inc and Morgan Stanely Group Inc <M S > . The request to bar the merger was made by Samjens Acquisition Corp , a partnership formed by financier Asher B. Edelman and Dominion Textiles Inc. Samjens has made a hostile 77 dlr per share takeover bid for Burlington . Reuter 
<TEST	19420	acq>
of databases and legal and bilbiographic reference material , said it has sold all of its assets to The Butterworth Group , a division of Reed International PLC <REED.L> , for under 15 mln dlrs . Saur said Klaus Saur , president and owner of the company , will remain president of Saur operations in Munich , London and New York . Reuter 
<TEST	19426	acq>
report that it is interested in acquiring International Minerals and Chemical Corp ( IGL ) . " We have no interest in International Minerals or any of its divisions , " a spokesman told Reuters . " We 've had no conversations with them . " USA Today reported that Archer-Daniels-Midland might be seeking a hostile takeover of International Minerals . Reuter 
<TEST	19428	acq>
formerly associated with London investor Christopher Moran in his unsuccessful bid to take over Zondervan Corp last year , said it cut its stake in the company to less than five pct . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group , led by investors Lawrence Altschul and James Apostolakis , said it cut its Zondervan stake to 157,500 shares , or 3.8 pct of the total , from 246,500 shares , or 5.9 pct . The group , which earlier this month said in an SEC filing it wanted join with other groups to maximize share values , said it sold 89,000 shares between June 9 and 15 for 1.5 mln dlrs . The group had joined with the Moran group , which last year assembled a combined 44 pct stake in Zondervan during its unsuccessful takeover try . Last month , the Moran group broke up and splintered into various factions . Moran himself withdrew from the takeover effort and last reported his personal stake at 4.8 pct . A group led by Miwok Capital Corp , a California broker with a 10.6 pct stake , and another one led by Minneapolis stockbroker Jeffrey Wendel with 2.6 pct , have both made recent SEC filings saying they are seeking agreements with other parties who may want to seek control of the company . Reuter 
<TEST	19432	acq>
policeman for the nation 's securities markets will inherit an agency challenged by an insider trading scandal , wild stock price gyrations and a host of uncertainties stemming from the globalization of financial markets . David Ruder , a 58-year-old Republican law professor at Northwestern University in Eva n ston , Ill. , was named Thursday to be the 23rd chairman of the five-member U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission . If confirmed by the Senate , as expected , he will succeed John Shad , who left the agency earlier this week after a record six years as chairman to become ambassador to the Netherlands . The SEC has been in the limelight for the past year as its investigators have probed into the most colossal insider trading scandal ever uncovered on Wall Street . The investigation , which is still active , mushroomed in recent months as a growing number of well known traders and prominent investment banking firms have been charged with wrongdoing . The pace of the probe picked up markedly in November after Ivan Boesky , one of Wall Street 's most successful stock speculators , agreed to cooperate with government investigators and to pay a record 100 mln dlrs in penalties and illegal profits after being charged with insider trading . But the agency is also wrestling with a vexing new phenomenon of huge and rapid swings in stock prices , spurred by computer-driven trading strategies that span markets in securities , options and futures . The price gyrations have combined with rising trading volumes to bring unprecedented volatility to some U.S. securities markets . At the same time , the SEC is being pressed by some lawmakers to put a stop to abusive tactics in corporate takeover contests as an unrelenting wave of such takeovers steadily reshapes the U.S. corporate landscape . And the agency is being pushed by U.S. and foreign exchanges intent on expansion to lay the regulatory groundwork for an international securities marketplace in which trading occurs across borders throughout the world , around the clock . Such worldwide trading networks offer vast new investment opportunities but could strain the SEC 's ability to enforce U.S. securities laws and guard investors from fraud . Under the leadership of Shad , the SEC eased financial disclosure requirements for publicly traded companies , eliminated many minor investor protection rules , attempted to spur competition among exchanges and streamlined the agency 's review of hostile corporate takeovers . Shad , who had been vice chairman of the E. F. Hutton investment banking firm , brought a Wall Street perspective to the agency upon being named chairman in 1981 . In line with the views of other top administration officials , he favored marketplace determination of takeover battles over new federal regulations . The SEC under Shad also stressed prosecution of insider trading violations over the corporate wrongdoing cases that topped the agency 's enforcement agenda during the administration of President Jimmy Carter , a Democrat . Securities lawyers and industry officials acquainted with Ruder say the new chairman-designate is unlikely to significantly alter the commission 's current priorities . The SEC currently has about 2,000 employees , most of them lawyers , and an annual budget of about 115 mln dlrs though that figure likely will be significantly higher next year as the agency moves to beef up its enforcement staff . The agency is one of the few in the government that actually has taken in more money than it has spent in the past few years because of fees it charges public companies , investment banks and other securities firms it regulates . The SEC is structured as an independent regulatory agency , meaning that its five commissioners are appointed by the president to fixed five-year terms and protected from firing for policy differences alone . By law , no more than three commissioners may be of the same political party , and the agency prepares its own budget request each year instead of leaving this to the White House . Established by Congress in 1934 , the SEC traces its origins to the great stock market crash of 1929 , which was attributed in large part to widespread trading on credit and attempted market manipulations by large investment firms . The agency requires public companies and investment vehicles such as mutual funds to issue periodic reports on their financial condition and to disclose changes in their condition any time they issue new securities . It requires brokers , dealers and investment banks to register with it and comply with investor protection rules , and it polices exchanges and regulates trading practices . Its first chairman was Joseph Kennedy , an industrial magnate who was also the father of John Kennedy , later to become the nation 's 35th president . Other former chairmen include William Douglas , who served from 1937 until his appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court in 1939 , and William Casey , who served during President Nixon 's first term and was Reagan 's director of the Central Intelligence Agency until his death earlier this year . Reuter 
<TEST	19433	trade>
replace the U.S. tariff schedule with a new system to bring it into line with international tariff categories , U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said . The new system will add such items as fiber optics and more accurately define new compos ites , items not widely traded when the current schedule was devised some 30 years ago . Yeutter said the Harmonized System , as the new schedule is called , will change tariff categories and definitions to meet the present-day needs of exporters and importers , but they should pay about the same rates of duties . Yeutter said , " American exporters will find it far easier to deal with one standardized worldwide system than the variety of differing systems which they now face . " He said the new system ended 12 years of multinational negotiations to create the unified tariff schedule . Yeutter said government and business moves are based on data from tariff schedules and the new system will improve knowledge of trade flows and the quality of decision-making . He said 56 nations pledged to bring their standards under the new system , with about half expected to join the system by January 1988 . reuter 
<TEST	19435	acq>
subsidiary of Service Resources Corp , said it cut its stake in Sorg Inc to 366,700 shares , or 16.7 pct of the total outstanding common stock , from 385,000 shares , or 17.5 pct . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Young , which yesterday withdrew its 23 dlr a share takeover proposal , said its other group member , SDI Partners Ltd Partnership , sold 18,300 Sorg common shares between June 16 and 18 at 17-1/2 to 19 dlrs each . Reuter 
<TEST	19441	acq>
investment advisory firm , told the Securities and Exchange Commission it has acquired 55,900 shares of Supreme Equipment and Systems Corp , or 5.1 pct of the total outstanding . Towle said it bought the stock for investment purposes on behalf of its advisory clients . Reuter 
<TEST	19444	trade>
Sarcinelli , commenting on speculation in the Italian press , said a sharp balance of payments deficit in May could not be attributed to recent moves liberalizing the purchase of foreign securities . Sarcinelli was reacting to suggestions that last month 's overall 3,211 billion lire deficit , which compares with April 's 2,040 billion surplus , could be linked to a May 13 decree abolishing obligatory non-interest-bearing deposits on foreign securities purchases . " The deficit can be better attributed to premature and delayed foreign trade payments and receipts ( leads and lags ) rather than capital outflow to portfolio investment , " Sarcinelli said in a statement . Earlier today the newspaper La Repubblica cited remarks by the Bank of Italy , which announced the deficit for May and said it had been partly caused by " non-banking capital outflows . " " In practice , it seems that there has been a constant flow of capital to foreign securities or investments outside our borders , " said the newspaper . But the newspaper added that it was still not possible to say how far the move to abolish foreign securities purchase deposits had affected Italy 's balance of payments . Reuter 
<TEST	19447	acq>
to buy the U.S. assets of Reichold Chemicals Inc 's Sterling Group , which manufactures electrical insulation compounds and industrial resins and develops coatings for the electronics industry . Terms were und isclosed . Sico said it acquired Sterling Group 's Canadian assets in February . It said the U.S. acquisition adds about 15 mln dlrs to its annual sales volume . Reuter 
<TEST	19448	acq>
investment partnerships told the Securities and Exchange Commission it sold its entire stake in Silicon Systems Inc of 410,000 shares , or 6.0 pct of the total outstanding . The group , which includes HLM Associates , HLM Associates II and their three general partners , said it sold the stock between April 22 and June 9 at 9.00 to 9.125 dlrs a share as the result of an investment decision . Reuter 
<TEST	19451	acq>
Chicago-based Coronet Insurance Co and Sunstates Corp , a Jacksonville. , Fla. , real estate firm , said it raised its stake in Tandy Brands Inc to 175,900 shares , or 6.9 pct of the total . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group said it bought 43,600 Tandy common shares between May 21 and June 9 for 633,333 dlrs in addition to the 132,300 shares , or 5.2 pct , it had held previously . Reuter 
<TEST	19453	acq>
withdrawn its May 27 offer to acquire <Westworld Community Healthcare Inc> . The company said it remains interested in acquiring the Westworld 's hospitals and will attempt to continue negotiations with Westworld . Reuter 
<TEST	19462	acq>
Inc said it entered into a preliminary agreement to merge with Assets Development Corp , a public company . Terms were not disclosed . The companies said they expected the merged group to qualify for listing on NASDAQ. Reuter 
<TEST	19464	acq>
no comment on reports the company has been accumulating shares of Dayton Hudson Corp. Dayton Hudson said in a letter to shareholders it told an " aggressive buyer " of its stock that it does not want to be acquired . Wall Street sources have identified the buyer as Dart , which earlier this year was thwarted in a takeover attempt for the now privately held Supermarkets General Corp. Reuter 
<TEST	19470	acq>
its 50.50 dlrs a share offer for JWT Group Inc until midday June 22 . The company temporarily extended the offer on June 17 but did not give an expiration date . Its 45 dlrs a share offer for JWT , which has been rejected by JWT , expires on July 10 . Reuter 
<TEST	19473	acq>
it ended negotiations to sell Maxicare Alabama L.P. to ( Complete Health Inc ) . The companies said last week they had reached agreement in principle for Complete Health to purchase the health maintenance organization , the largest in Alabama . Maxicare said the terms would not be in the best interests of the heatlh care providers who have built the Alabama HMO . It said it now intends to work with its health care providers in Alabama to further develop the HMO . Reuter 
<TEST	19482	acq>
investment partnership , said it raised its stake in Facet Enterprises Inc to 480,000 shares , or 9.6 pct of the total outstanding common stock , from 300,000 shares , or 6.0 pct . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Charter Oak said it bought 180,000 Facet common shares on June 12 at 18.25 dlrs each . Reuter 
<TEST	19483	interest>
month in U.S. debt futures may be extended next week by a series of U.S. economic reports , analysts said , as long as the dollar holds firm . " Interest rates have declined by approximately 50 basis points over the last month , largely over indications that inflation is not as high as people had feared and the narrowing U.S. trade balance , in nominal terms , " Samuel Kahan , chief financial economist with Kleinwort Benson Government Securities , said . Kahan said recent government reports have shown strength in the economy during the first quarter , but his concern is whether the U.S. economy will sustain that strength in the longer term . Weak U.S. economic growth could hurt the dollar , which has become more important to the direction of debt futures than the beneficial impact on interest rates of a sluggish economy . The median trade expectations for Tuesday 's U.S. Consumer Price Index and Durable Goods reports are up 0.4 pct and down 1.5 pct , respectively . Meanwhile , the eight billion dlr drop in the M-1 money supply announced this week was " surprising , much larger than expected , " according to Kahan . " Unless quickly reversed , " such a trend " will ensure that June M-1 growth will be negative , " Kahan said . Taken in conjunction with M-2 and M-3 aggregates which Kahan said have " slowed to a crawl , below Federal Reserve Board annual targets , " the consequences could be a hint of economic weakness down the road , he said . Based on chart formations , T-bond futures may be poised for further gains , although the advance has been slowed recently , analysts said . September T-bonds " are up almost six points since about May 18 , " Merrill Lynch debt analyst Jim Duggan noted . September bond futures climbed from the low of 87 a month ago to over 93 in mid-J une , Duggan said . While follow-through buying has aided the advance so far , and bouts of short covering have prohibited a slide through chart support , the rally in September T-bonds has been thwarted above the 93 level . " The 93 level is formidable resistance and must be taken out before this activity is anything other than a trading range market ," Carroll McEntee and McGinley Futures debt analyst Brian Singer said . The dollar remains the key fundamental factor , and the U.S. currency has made little headway of late , analysts said . " The critical variable remaining in the market is the value of the dollar , " Kahan said . Additional influences next week will be possible developments ahead of an OPEC members meeting , and the impact and size of the U.S. budget deficit , " although these will not be in the forefront of the market early next week , " Kahan said . In looking ahead to the U.S. Treasury mini-refunding auctions of 24.25 billion in T-notes on Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday , Singer said the market will likely greet the results with little exci tement . However , a successful auction could prove to be a turning point , depending on prevailing market psychology . Reuter 
<TEST	19489	money-fx>
investigating an alleged fraud by the second largest trading house in the Caracas free foreign exchange market , Finance Minister Manuel Azpurua told reporters . The Superintendency of Banks and the Technical and Judicial Police have both begun probes of Cambio la Guiara , Azpurua said on Friday night . Police said the owners of the firm , Mario Muggia and his brother Luigi Muggia , have left Venezuela . Cambio la Guiara operated in part on the " parallel market " in which traders buy and sell dollars among themselves . The Venezuelan central bank on June 17 suspended the licences of all 21 foreign exchange operators in the parallel market , blaming their speculation for the constant rise in the value of the U.S. Dollar here . Juan Domingo Cordero , vice-president of the Caracas Stock Exchange and the owner of a foreign exchange trading house , said on Friday he had begun legal action against Cambio la Guiara for issuing him four checks without funds for a total amount of almost one mln dlrs . The Cambio la Guiara exchange house had operated in Venezuela for more than 20 years . REUTER 
<TEST	19491	ship>
repeated attack by Iran , has the full support of Saudi Arabia and other Gulf allies , a senior government official said . Cabinet spokesman Ab dul-Aziz al-Otaibi , quoted by the Kuwaiti news agency KUNA yesterday , said Foreign Minister Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah had told cabinet he had found " complete support ...At this delicate phase " during visits to Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) states . The GCC , an economic and military alliance which has generally supported Iraq over Iran , comprises Bahrain , Kuwait , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates . REUTER 
<TEST	19492	crude>
significant oil discovery at its Mawson One well in the Moomba block of the Cooper Basin , South Australia . It said the well flowed oil from sands at an average rate of 1,440 barrels per day from 2,131 to 2,135 metres through a 6mm choke . Santos said the well was cased and suspended pending further evaluation . But it said the proximity of the discovery to existing production facilities at the Gidgealpa South field would allow Mawson One to be brought into production rapidly . Santos has a 60 pct stake in the block , <Del hi Petroleum Pty Ltd> has 30 pct and <South Australian Oil and Gas Corp Pty Ltd> has 10 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	19497	crude>
of the world oil situation with its speed in hammering out a pact to limit crude oil output to 16.6 mln barrels per day ( bpd ) for the rest of 1987 , oil traders said . They said market respect for the cartel has increased since it announced Saturday that it would cut fourth quarter output to 16.6 mln bpd from the 18.3 mln agreed in December . " There are light oversupplies now , but OPEC Has ensured there will be no oversupplies in the fourth quarter , and is in effect putting pressure on end-users , " a European crude oil trader said . In Tokyo , one oil analyst said , " There 's no reason to expect a weak market from now on . " A Japanese oil trader , also based in Tokyo , said , " We thought OPEC would have difficulty agreeing on fourth quarter production so the market will react very bullishly . " Traders in Singapore said that while there has been only a slight increase so far in spot quotes for Dubai , a benchmark crude , they expect price increases over the next few days . August Dubai was discussed in cautious early activity at around 17.35 dlrs , above Friday 's 17.15-20 range , but still below the government selling price ( GSP ) of 17.42 . Even prices of light Mideast grades , such as Qatar and Abu Dhabi crudes , are expected to improve from recent weak positions , 15 to 20 cents below their GSP 's . Singapore traders said sellers might now aim for GSP 's at least . They said that after initial jumps , they expect prices to stabilise and hover around GSPs for the next few months . They said the Japanese oil market would be most affected and Japanese end-users would need to rebuild stocks for winter requirements before October . Prices are most likely to rise in the fourth quarter on European and U.S. Stockbuilding for winter , they added . " There 's no doubt consumption will be higher than production by the fourth quarter and stocks are not that high , " said an international trader in Tokyo . Another Tokyo trader was less bullish , " For sure there will be some shortage but it depends on how much they ( OPEC members ) cheat . " A Singapore trade source said , " There is enough cheating and leakage in the OPEC sales system to convince traders there is no need to worry about shortages . " Other traders said the questionable Iraqi production level , after Iraq 's rejection of its assigned quota , was a bearish factor to be considered . Traders also said end-users now would buy as much as possible on term contracts and buy spot only when the market cooled from its initial reaction to the OPEC agreement . Spot product prices in Singapore were little changed in thin early discussions , with naphtha and middle distillates quiet on minimal buying interest . Fuel oil products were steady to firm on light demand and tight prompt supplies , dealers said . REUTER 
<TEST	19499	crude>
mln barrels per day ( bpd ) for the rest of the year should boost spot prices and enable the group to raise its official reference price to 20 dlrs a barrel in January from the current 18 dlrs , Far East oil industry sources said . " Fundamentally , the market situation is bullish and the official price will be 20 dlrs in January , " a Japanese refiner said . The sources said that in spite of over-production by OPEC members such as Iraq , the United Arab Emirates , Kuwait and Qatar , demand should exceed supply by the fourth quarter . Spot oil prices surged on Friday in late U.S. Trading as the market anticipated an OPEC agreement on second-half 1987 output . In early Tokyo trade , levels were firm at 17.30 dlrs for Mideast Dubai cargoes loading next month and 19.00 dlrs for U.K. Brent , traders said . They said they expect more foreign crudes to be sucked into the U.S. Market as the benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) trades at around 20.30 dlrs . " With WTI at 20 , 21 or 22 dlrs , U.S. Refiners will import Mideast and Far East crudes and this will strengthen those grades further , " said a Japanese oil trader . Some Tokyo traders were cautious about whether thU spot market has further upward potential in the short term , having risen strongly on the OPEC news on Friday . " You could certainly argue that if New York rose on that basis , there 's no reason for prices to go up again today , " said one international oil trader in Tokyo . " But I think if there 's any sign of a dip , it will be bought back up again pretty quickly , " he added . One oil industry analyst concurred , " There is no reason to expect a weak market from now on . " He said he expected OPEC to raise prices to 20 dlrs when it meets on December 9 . Oil sources said spot prices are unlikely to surge strongly in the next few months due to cheating by some OPEC members and the likelihood that Saudi Arabia will act as swing producer to maintain steady prices . Iraq is currently producing around two mln barrels per day compared to its second-half quota of 1.54 mln , they said . Its export capability will rise to 2.5 mln bpd when a new pipeline through Turkey , comes onstream in or around September . Qatar is said to be achieving sales of around 350,000 bpd , against its OPEC-assigned quota of 299,000 , by discounting up to 20 cents a barrel from official prices , the sources said . Iran , the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait are also cheating on the OPEC agreement with over-production and effective price discounts through counter-purchases , industry sources said . But they mostly agreed that Saudi Arabia will unofficially act as swing producer , cutting production to compensate for higher output by other members or boosting output if spot prices rise too high too fast . Saudi Arabia has a floating oil stockpile of 40 to 50 mln barrels . " Saudi Arabia wants oil price stability so the stockpile may be utilized to cool down the market if it rises too much ," an oil industry analyst said . REUTER 
<TEST	19505	crude>
state-owned oil company , Petromin , Jamal Hassan Jawa , has retired at his own request , oil industry sources said . They said Ali Ibrahim Rubaishi , head of organisation planning in Petromin , would take over as acting governor . Jawa held the post since his predecessor , Ab dul-Hadi Taher , left in a major oil industry shake up last December . The sources said Rubaishi had not been expected to hold the post permanently . The government removed Taher and Oil Minister Ahmed Zaki Yamani from their posts late last year in a move which industry sources said was aimed at coming to grips with a buyers ' oil market . The two men had run the Saudi oil industry for more than 20 years . Industry sources said that despite huge resources , Saudi Arabia had been unable to mould an oil marketing strategy tuned to the competitive realities of the 1980s glut . Hisham Nazer , who replaced Yama ni , successfully led an OPEC-engineered return to fixed oil prices of 18 dlrs a barrel last December . Nazer is believed to be reviewing Saudi oil operations which could lead to a thorough overhaul in the way Saudi Arabia does business , the sources said . The sources had said possible candidates for the governor 's job include Prince Abdul Aziz Ibn Salman Ibn Abdul Aziz , who earlier ran a research center at Saudi Arabia 's University of Petroleum and Minerals , and former Deputy Planning Minister Faisal Beshir . They also list Abdulla Bakr , President of the University of Petroleum and Minerals , economist Ali Jonahi , Ahmed Shinawi , and Zuheir Masoud , director of Jeddah Islamic Port . REUTER 
<TEST	19506	crude>
arrived in Alexandria last night for a visit to Egypt , the national Middle East News Agency ( MENA ) said . It said Oteiba , who had just attended the OPEC ministerial meeting in Vienna , would stay for several days but gave no details . Non -OPEC Egypt has pledged to restrain output to support OPEC 's moves to boost oil prices . Oil Minister Abdel Hadi Kandeel last week said Egypt plans to leave its oil production of 870,000 barrels per day unchanged for the next five years . Egypt is able to produce up to one mln bpd . REUTER 
<TEST	19507	acq>
agreed 302.6 mln stg offer for fellow insurance broker <Stewart Wrightson Plc> , a joint statement said . The offer would be on the basis of three Willis shares for every two in Stewart , valuing each Stewart share at about 655.5p . Willis already owns 2.05 mln shares , or 4.62 pct , and has received acceptances from Stewart 's directors for a further 247,469 shares . Full acceptance of the offer would involve the issue of 66.2 mln new Willis shares , or 28.2 pct of the enlarged total . The companies said the proposed merger would bring together businesses that were largely complementary . Both believed the combination would permit more effective competition throughout the world and enahnce the service provided to clients . Following the merger , the two companies saw significant opportunities for growth in brokerage income and considerable scope for improved operating efficiency . Willis shares were suspended on Friday at 437p . When trading restarted they dropped sharply to 393p . Stewart Wrightson shares rose to 576p at 0835 gmt from a suspension price of 499p . REUTER 
<TEST	19509	crude>
planned North Sea oil output in support of OPEC from July 15 until the end of this year , Oil Ministry spokesman Egil Helle told Reuters . " We took a very positive view of the OPEC meeting in Vienna , " he said . " The accord reached there means stability in the oil market and we shall continue making our contribution . " The cuts , originally brought in from February 1 , would probably be officially approved on July 10 by parliament , Helle said . The ministry had written to Norway 's oil companies and would now discuss with them how best to implement the cuts . OPEC agreed this weekend in Vienna on an output ceiling of 16.6 mln barrels per day ( bpd ) for the rest of 1987 and retained the fixed prices that were set in its December accord based on an 18 dlr per barrel reference point . OPEC 's first half 1987 output ceiling was 15.8 mln bpd , and it 's December pact had provisionally set a third quarter ceiling of 16.6 mln bpd , rising to 18.3 mln in the fourth quarter . Norway , which pumps around one mln bpd from its offshore fields , previously said it would continue its output curbs from planned production for the rest of the year if OPEC remained within its December accord on output and prices . Norway 's oil production rose 10 pct to an average of around 840,000 bpd in 1986 . Since then it has risen to around one mln bpd , and is expected to reach about 1.5 mln bpd by 1995 . The 7.5 pct cut from planned production implemented since February reduced Norway 's oil output by about 80,000 bpd . Norway 's Oil Minister Arne Oeien , currently in Iceland for a meeting of Nordic ministers , has made no official statement on the latest oil production cutbacks . Over the past year several other leading non-OPEC producers , including the Soviet Union , Mexico , China , Malaysia and Egypt have also pledged support for OPEC 's bid to keep prices stable . Norway decided on the initial round of cuts following an OPEC agreement last December which boosted oil prices to around 18 dlrs per barrel from around 14 to 15 dlrs last December . Norway relies on oil for about 40 pct of its total export earnings and was hit hard by the collapse in the oil price during the first half of 1986 . But firmer oil prices since then have brought some stability to the economy and helped narrow the foreign trade deficit . Norway 's North Sea neighbour Britain has consistently refused to cooperate with OPEC output cuts saying it is up to the producing oil companies to set the levels of production . REUTER 
<TEST	19510	acq>
agreed to buy the group of companies comprising Lonrho Pl c 's <LRHO .L> Metropole Casino Division , together with a freehold in central London , for 121.55 mln stg . Payment will be in cash on completion except for three mln stg payable on December 1 , 1988 . Brent said it also proposed to raise about 126 mln stg net through the issue of 131.67 mln convertible shares at one stg each . The shares can be converted between 1990 and 2002 at the rate of four ordinary shares for every 15 convertibles held . On full conversion , the issued ordinary share capital of the company would increase by some 64 pct . <Birdcage Walk Ltd> , a company controlled by the Walker family , owns 20.68 pct of the shares and is entitled to 27.2 mln convertible shares under the offer . The trustees had indicated that it intended to sell enough of the convertibles , nil paid , to enable it to take up the remainder . Brent would buy the casino companies and the freehold of 45 , Park Lane in London . Under the arrangements , it would also arrange for the repayment of 6.45 mln stg in inter-company debt . Brent Walker shares firmed sharply on the announcement to 385p from 353p at Friday 's close , while Lonrho also firmed , to 275p from 265.5p . REUTER 
<TEST	19511	interest>
in certificates of deposit ( C D s ) via repurchase agreements today to show its determination to maintain an easy money policy , central bank officials said . " Today 's CD buying operation was designed to seek an announcement effect , in which we would reassure the market of the fact that we have not changed our policy stanc e , " a senior central bank official told Reuters . The bank also bought 400 billion yen in two-month commercial bills to smooth out tight credit conditions in the interbank market today , the officials said . The central bank was concerned about growing market expectations of higher interest rates , which were in part responsible for the recent plunge in stock and yen bond prices , the officials said . But money traders said the market generally shrugged off the bank 's CD operation because it was small and at a rate far below prevailing market rates . The rate on the key three-month CDs in the primary market was 4.08/00 pct , while the bank 's bid was 3.75 pct , they said . The bank 's bill buying operation also had little impact because it was regarded as a routine operation , they said . The money traders said they regarded the central bank 's CD buying operation as simply a gesture to live up to Japan 's pledge to guide interest rates lower and stimulate the economy . " We did not expect the central bank to ease its credit grip any further , " a bank manager said , adding that the prevailing market expectation of higher rates will remain . " If this is the case , the three-month CD rate will stay above four pct for the time being , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	19512	interest>
billion yen in bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 2,100 billion , money market traders said . Of the total , 800 billion yen will yield 3.6004 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in 34-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 3 . The other 200 billion yen will yield 3.6003 pct in 43-day repurchase accords maturing on August 12 . The remaining 200 billion yen will yield 3.6503 pct in 50-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 19 . The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.5625 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and 3.6250 pct on two-month bills . They attributed the projected surplus mainly to 1,900 billion yen of government tax allocations to local governments and public bodies . REUTER 
<TEST	19529	interest>
issued today by the United Arab Emirates central bank were unchanged from those on last Monday 's offer , the bank said . The one month yield was set at last week 's 6-3/4 pct , while two and three month CDs also remained unchanged at 6-13/16 pct . The six month yield was set at seven pct . REUTER 
<TEST	19539	trade>
widen in fiscal 1987/88 beginning on July 1 after the government relaxed restrictions on some imports including luxury cars . The country has set its export target for the year at 1.1 billion U.S. Dlrs against imports of 1.805 billion dlrs , compared with 1986/7 's one billion dlrs of export earnings and 1.113 billion dlrs of imports . Commerce Minister Mohammad Abdul Munim said the changes were aimed at encouraging export oriented industries to boost foreign exchange earnings and imports of essential machinery and raw materials , to increase industrial production . The government was easing procedures to enhance incentives especially for exporters of textiles and frozen food and importers of industrial machinery and raw materials , Munim told reporters . Commerce Ministry officials told Reuters the import policy covered only commercial imports amounting to 1.805 billion dlrs . Imports of capital machinery and foodgrains by the government were not included in the policy , they added . They said the country 's total import bill ( both commercial and other imports ) was expected to reach 2.7 billion dlrs in the new year compared with 2.4 billion dlrs in 1986/87 . The minister said ending restrictions on imports of cars and dropping 50 pct sales tax on small cars would not harm the economy . Munim said Bangladesh feared a further drop in prices for its main export jute , " which will certainly affect our export earning s " in the coming year . Bangladesh 's jute exports fell to 410 mln dlrs from 500 mln in 1986/87 , according official figures . But Munim said exports of non-traditional items , which accounted for over 40 pct of total exports this year , would play a key role in achieving the 1987/88 export target . REUTER 
<TEST	19541	money-fx>
open market in a bid to ease strong upward pressure on the currency , which threatens to rise above set levels in a basket of currencies , dealers said . The central bank declined comment , but dealers noted the bank had also intervened and sold small amounts of crowns on Friday . The bank is committed to defending the crown at certain levels in a basket of 14 trade-weighted currencies . " They 've been in again this morning , selling piecemeal whenever they think necessary , " a senior dealer at an Oslo bank , who declined to be identified , told Reuters . The crown 's index is currently around 109.60 in the basket close to its upper limit of 109.50 which the central bank is committed to defending . A low index figure indicates a high value for the crown . The limit at the other end of the scale is set at 114.50 . The crown has been bolstered by high Norwegian interest rates , currently around 16 pct in the money market , and better than expected economic indicators which showed a sharply reduced foreign trade deficit in May and inflation stabilising around the current annual rate of 10 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	19546	trade>
European Community ( EC ) and the United States failed to resolve a dispute over pasta which may provoke new trade frictions next month , diplomatic sources said . The U.S. Insists the EC complies with what it regards as an unambiguous ruling from the world trade body GATT and dismantles an export subsidy system which has led to Italy taking an increasing share of the U.S. Pasta market . The sources said the EC , which currently provides subsidies of around 16 cents a pound , offered a compromise in last week 's talks in Brussels but that this was rejected by the U.S. U.S. Assistant Special Trade Representative Jim Murphy has returned to Washington ahead of a theoretical July 1 deadline for agreement , set last August when the two sides resolved a related dispute over EC restrictions on U.S. Citrus imports . The diplomatic sources said the citrus issue could be reopened if the pasta dispute was not solved quickly . It was also possible the U.S. Would reimpose a 40 pct tariff on EC pasta , lifted when the citrus row was settled . But the two sides may agree to extend the deadline for a few days as EC Commissioners Willy de Clercq and Frans Andriessen are due to visit Washington from July 7 to 10 . REUTER 
<TEST	19549	grain	wheat>
ranging from 13.4 pct for some crops to 23.3 pct for meat from July 1 , the Finance and Agriculture ministries said . The state procurement price for rape will rise 13.4 pct to 5,500 zloties per quintal , while wheat and rye will go up an average 18.2 pct to 3,100 and 2,400 zloties per quintal . Pork will rise by 18.8 pct and beef 23.3 pct . The ministries said the new prices aimed to ensure farmers ' profits and meet higher living costs . But at the same time they said fertilisers would rise by an average 50 pct , animal feeds by 38 pct and tractors by 25 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	19555	trade>
of Danish pigmeat from July 14 after Canadian veterinary inspectors approved only two of 33 slaughterhouses , a Danish agriculture ministry official told Reuters . The Canadians postponed the original July 1 deadline at the request of the European Commission , which Denmark approached for support . Danish Foreign Minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen said in an interview with the daily Berlingske Tidende " Denmark will not accept a ban on Danish meat exports , and I am sure we can reach an understanding with the Canadians with the help of the EC . " Danish pigmeat exports to Canada were worth 106 mln crowns in 1986 , while Canadian exports to the European Community totalled about 6.5 billion U.S. Dlrs . Some Danish slaughterhouse officials expressed suspicion that the Canadian action was in response to tightening up by EC veterinary inspectors on Canadian food exports to the EC . But an official at the Canadian embassy in Copenhagen said the inspection of Danish slaughterhouses was based on EC regulations . " Canadian officials are very concerned about the trade implications . We are holding active discussions with the EC and bilaterally , " she added . REUTER 
<TEST	19556	crude>
communique issued at the conclusion of the OPEC conference here . " The conference expressed satisfaction about the positive results of the agreement signed in December , 1986 , by which OPEC re-established the system of fixed price at a level of 18 dlrs per barrel supported by OPEC production ceilings distributed into national production levels . " The conference noted that all market indicators , including spot prices in the market and netback values of all OPEC crudes , have been firming up significantly , thus consolidating the OPEC price structure as defined by the agreement . " " The conference examined the supply/demand outlook for the second half of the year and decided that in order to secure continued firm prices in the market , OPEC production during the fourth quarter of 1987 will be equal to that of the third quarter , I.E. 16.6 mln barrels per day ( bpd ) , distributed into the same national production levels as were defined by the above-mentioned agreement for that quart er . " " Furthermore , the conference decided to establish a committee of five heads of delegation to monitor the price evolution in the market in relation to the OPEC official prices in order to secure price stability around the opec price structure . " S hould there be any significant change in market prices , the committee would immediately call for an extraordinary meeting of the conference with a view to deciding on the necessary OPEC production levels during the second half of the year , which would secure the desired market stabilit y . " " The conference reiterated the necessity of member countries ' strict adherence to the agreement signed in December 1986 , both in terms of official price , and national production , levels . " For this purpose , the conference decided to establish a committee of three heads of delegation to undertake visits to member countries in order to motivate them to comply with the terms of the agreement . " " M oreover , the conference stressed the necessity of the cooperation of the oil-producing exporting countries outside OPEC as an essential prerequisite for a lasting market stability . The conference , therefore , decided to reinstate the group of five heads of delegation established by the 77th ( extraordinary ) meeting of the conference in April , 1986 to undertake the necessary contacts with those countries . " The conference observed the continued fall in the value of the U.S. Dollar and agreed that the matter should be studied and reported to the next meeting of the conference . " " The conference discussed the appointment of the secretary general and decided to discuss the matter again in its next ordinary meeting . " The conference extended the term of office of Fadhil al-Chalabi as deputy secretary general for a period of one year from October 7 , 1987 . " The next ordinary meeting of the conference will be convened in Vienna on December 9 , 1987 . " REUTER 
<TEST	19557	interest>
West Germany would be badly advised to lower interest rates and that he believed the economy would continue to recover after a six-month lull . Asked by the newspaper Bild am Sonntag if lower interest rates could boost the domestic economy , Poehl said " We would be badly advised if we forced further interest rate cuts . " This could , under certain circumstances , release new inflationary fears which would then be more likely to lead to higher interest rates , " he added . Poehl said Germany had practically no growth in the past six months because of the mark 's surge and the cold winter . " But since April , statistics clearly show that the economy finds itself on a course of growth ," he said . " I expect this development to continue in the coming months . " Asked about his expectations of a U.S.-European Community trade war , Poehl said such an event would be disastrous . " For this reason we in Europe must avoid everything used by protectionist forces in the U.S. As pretexts , " he added . " This includes ...Eliminating existing restrictions in the EC as far as possible . Protectionism is not found only in the U.S. " Reuter 
<TEST	19559	crude>
including that of Iraq , will be above the official 16.6 mln barrels per day ( bpd ) output ceiling agreed by OPEC Saturday , Kuwait oil minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifa al-Sabah , said . Iraq refused to sign the pact , by which OPEC maintained its ceiling at 16.6 mln bpd for both the third and fourth quarters of 1987 . In December , OPEC set a provisional fourth quarter level of 18.3 mln bpd , now cut back to the third quarter target . Ali told a news conference that including Iraq , " OPEC third quarter output will be between 17.5 and 17.7 mln bpd while fourth quarter output will be nearly 18 mln bp d " Ali did not detail what effect he thought these production levels would have on prices . Iraq has an official first half quota of 1.466 mln bpd , rising to 1.54 mln in the second half , but has refused to adhere to it and has recently been producing around two mln barrels per day , exporting it through pipelines to Saudi Arabia and Turkey . Iraq 's export capacity will be further boosted when a 500,000 bpd oil pipeline via Turkey comes on stream in about September . Iraq has been insisting on a quota equal to its Gulf War enemy Iran , which has a quota of 2.255 mln bpd , rising to 2.369 mln in the second half . Ali said the position of the 400,000 bpd production from the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait , which has been supplied to Iraq as war relief crude , was fixed . " We will not discuss it . There will not be any change , " he said . Ali said the conference , which began Thursday and ended Saturday evening , had been too short for all necessary problems to be adressed . " We are overdoing it in holding too short a meeting . We sweep a lot under the carpet , " he said . Ali said the problem of price differentials between the prices of various OPEC crudes had not been dealt with properly at the meeting . Ali said " The problem of differentials is a real one . I would hate to be producing today a light crude and that problem has not been dealt with properly . Light crudes are overpriced relative to heavy crudes . " Asked if the issue of differentials would be raised at the next OPEC meeting to be held in Vienna on December 9 , Ali said " If my crudes are affected I will raise the issue , I will not do the work of another ministe r . " Kuwait 's own crudes range from medium to heavy grades . OPEC reintroduced fixed prices on February 1 , with a spread of 2.65 dlrs a barrel between its lightest and heaviest crudes . Reuter 
<TEST	19560	crude>
production quota set in Vienna for the second half of this year , the official Iraqi news agency INA reported . It quoted Oil Minister Issam Ab dul-Rahim al-Chalabi , who returned Sunday , as saying " Iraq will continue to adhere to its position considering itself as not included in the agreement . " Last December , Iraq rejected its assigned first half 1987 quota of 1.466 mln bpd and demanded a share equal to the 2.255 mln bpd quota set for Iran , its enemy in the nearly seven-year-old Gulf war . The accord reached by OPEC ministers in Vienna Saturday set an output ceiling of 16.6 mln bpd for the group 's 13 members from July to December , raising Iraq 's share to 1.54 mln bpd and Iran 's to 2.369 mln . Reuter 
<TEST	19572	acq>
the previously announced acquisition of the Anderson Clayton Foods Division from Quaker Oats Co for 235 mln dlrs in cash . Reuter 
<TEST	19630	acq>
said it sold its 50 interest in Sociedad Iberica de Molturacion , S.A. ( Simsa ) , a soybean and sunflower seed processing company based in Madrid , Spain . Staley 's investment in Simsa no longer fit its overall coporate strategy and an agreement to sell the interest was completed in May , it said . Staley said the Simsa transaction will not have a material effect on its balance sheet . Reuter 
<TEST	19635	acq>
said it acquired the malpractice book of business generated by Medical Quadrangle Inc and Medical Professional Liability Agency Ltd , a producer of medical malpractice coverage . It said the acquisition will enable all of Frontier 's medical malpractice coverage to be serviced internally . Reuter 
<TEST	19645	acq>
Inc> said it has acquired a 20 pct ownership in <Personal Protection Technolgies Inc> . New Generation said Personal Protection is developing a group of personal care products , which are effective in killing a variety of viruses and bacteria on contact , for U.S. and export markets . Reuter 
<TEST	19649	acq>
board approved an agreement to be acquired by Courtaulds Plc <COU.L> for 20 dlrs a share . The company said the transaction is valued at more than 99 mln dlrs , based on its 4,963,620 shares of stock outstanding . It said Courtaulds has privately agreed to purchase a majority of Martin 's common from trusts established by Julius Hermes for 20 dlrs a share . It said Courtaulds intends to conduct a tender offer for all the Martin stock it does not own , beginning as soon as necessary documents are prepared . Reuter 
<TEST	19654	acq>
Sporting Goods ' common stock in recent open market transactions . BSN said its position is less than the five pct ownership which would require specific disclosure . The company will continually review its position and may nelect to increase or decrease the number of shares owned , it added . Reuter 
<TEST	19658	trade>
( EC ) and the United States have failed to settle a trade dispute over pasta , an EC Commission spokesman said . Diplomatic sources said the dispute could provoke new trade friction unless it was settled soon . Washington is insisting that the EC comply with what it regards as an unambiguous ruling from the world trade body GATT and cut export subsidies which have allowed Italy to take an increasing share of the U.S. pasta market . The EC provides subsidies of about 16 cents a pound on pasta exports . The spokeswoman said the talks foundered on the question of how much the subsidy should be cut . Reuter 
<TEST	19663	acq>
UtilCo Group subsidiary completed the purchase of a 38 pct interest in Westwood Energy Properties Limited Partnership for about 10 mln dlrs . The company said the partership is building and will operate a 30-megawatt electric generation facility in Schuykill County , Penn. , scheduled to begin commercial operation in July . It said the 38 pct interest was sold by Westwood Funding Corp , a wholly-owned subsidiary of Combustion Engineering Inc <C SP> . Westwood Funding retains an interest in the partership and serves as a general partner , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	19666	acq>
privately held Sage Equities Group agreed to buy a 7.6 pct interest in Coradian . In connection with the agreement , the company said it sold 666,667 shares at 75 cts a share . It said that in addition to common stock , Sage Equities will receive 667,667 warrants exercisable at 1.50 dlrs a share . Reuter 
<TEST	19668	grain	wheat>
behind normal growth levels due to the cold weather in May and June , when mean temperatures were up to four centigrade below average , the State Plant Cultivation Bureau said in a report . At the season 's first crop test on June 26 , the bureau rated crops at an overall 94 , the same as on June 20 last year . The figure of 100 represents normal in a year of average growth conditions with no crop damage . The test gave ratings expressed as a factor of 100 , as follows winter wheat 96 ( last year 91 ) , winter rye 97 ( 98 ) , winter barley 92 ( 90 ) , spring barley 94 ( 98 ) , oats 96 ( 98 ) , fodder and sugar beets 87 ( 96 ) , winter rapeseed 98 ( 94 ) , spring rapeseed 94 ( 98 ) . Final harvest figures for 1986 were not yet available . Reuter 
<TEST	19672	trade>
announced new rules to allow exporters of 25 products to use foreign exchange up to 10 pct of their firm 's total annual export earnings for export promotion abroad . The move is designed by the government to improve India 's trade deficit . Products eligible for the new Blanket Exchange Permit Scheme include tea bags , cigarettes , coffee , leather , various textiles , chemicals , pharmaceuticals , plastics , engineering and electronic goods , ready-made garments , processed food , sports goods , fabricated mica and consultancy services . The scheme replaces current rules which allow different amounts of foreign exchange to be used only when firms attain a minimum annual turnover prescribed for each product . RBI said under the new rule , 16 other products will quali fy , on a discretionary basis , for overseas promotional spending of not more than two pct of the freight-on-board value of annual export earnings . These include oil cakes , cereals , raw cotton , raw and semi-processed leather , gems , castor and sandalwood oil , psyllium husks and seeds , opium and various mineral ores . RBI said exporters of products not covered by either of the two groups will be eligible to use up to five pct of their freight-on-board value of their annual export earnings . Industry sources said the new entit lements , considerably higher than the previous limits , are also more flexible because holders of new permits no longer need to frequently apply to RBI for release of foreign exchange for export purposes . Reuter 
<TEST	19679	acq>
dividend rights plan in response to Deluxe Check Printers Inc <DLX> having agreed to sell its 38 pct interest in DataCard to National Computer Systems Inc <NL CS.O> . DataCard declared a dividend distribution of one preferred stock purchase right on each outstanding share its common stock . The dividend is designed to deter National Computer or other potential suitors from preventing DataCard from evaluating all alternatives to maximize shareholder value , DataCard said . National Computer told Reuters June 22 it could make a bid for DataCard . On June 25 DataCard filed suit in Hennepin County District Court in Minnesota to block the sale of the 38 pct stake of its stock to National Computer . In announcing the rights plan , DataCard said it " is not designed to deter takeovers that would be consistent with the objective of maximizing stockholders value to all of DataCard 's stockholders . " The rights will not become exercisable until 10 days after an announcement that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 44 pct or more of DataCard 's common stock . Once exercis able , each right would entitle a holder to buy 1/500th of a share of DataCard Series A junior participation preferred Stock for 35 dlrs . Holders other than an acquirer would be entitled to purchase , for six-mont hs after the right becomes exercis able , a number of shares of the new preferred stock with a market value equal to twice the exercise price of the rights . The rights dividend distribution is payable July 9 to shareholders of record July 9 . Reuter 
<TEST	19681	acq>
acquired the capital stock and related real estate assets of <New Generation Inc> , a regional consumer electronics specialty retailer . Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed . New Generation has annual sales volume of about 30 mln dlrs , Federal Resources said . Federal Resources said it will search for additional acquisitions including , but not limited to , specialty retailers . Reuter 
<TEST	19683	acq>
president Elias Zinn have demanded a list of Crazy Eddie Inc shareholders from the company and said they may pursue a merger of the Edison , N.J . electronics retailer . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Zinn said the demand for the shareholder list was made on June 26 because he may desire to communicate with other Crazy Eddie shareholders " regarding the affairs " of the company . Zinn and his firm , which disclosed they hold a 5.1 pct stake in Crazy Eddie common stock , said they may acquire more shares through a negotiated merger or tender offer . Entertainment Marketing was informed on June 25 by Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. , acting on behalf of Crazy Eddie , that it would be provided with " certain informatio n " about Crazy Eddie , it told the SEC . Entertainment Marketing , a Houston-based firm involved in electronics wholesaling and televised home shopping sales , proposed an eight dlr a share merger acquisition of Crazy Eddie on May 29 , and modified the proposal on June 9 to include the possible participation of Crazy Eddie management . Entertainment Marketing told the SEC it expects to meet with Crazy Eddie representatives in the near future . Entertainment Marketing also disclosed that it retained Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc as its financial advisor and investment banker . In light of a June 17 announcement from Crazy Eddie that Chemical Bank would no longer fund a 52 mln dlr credit facility with the company , plus further declines in the price of its stock , Entertainment Marketing and Zinn said they are " continuing to evaluate their alternatives with respect to their investment " in Crazy Eddie stock . Depending on its evaluation of the company , including actions by Crazy Eddie 's board and any possible third party bids for the company , Entertainment Marketing and its president said they may hold their present stake in the company , sell some of their shares , or purchase more shares on the open market , through private purchases or in connection with a merger or tender offer . According to the SEC filing , Entertainment Marketing and Zinn bought their current holdings of 1,560,000 Crazy Eddie common shares between May 20 and June 17 at 7.42 dlrs to 7.93 dlrs a share , or a total of about 11.9 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	19684	ship	crude>
and around the Mideast Gulf could trigger more attacks on unprotected merchant ships but run little risk of sparking a direct military clash with Iran , diplomats said . They said the American decision inevitably carries some risk of armed confrontation , but Iran despite its blunt rhetoric would want to avoid this as much as Washington . "As Iran knows very well , what America is bringing into the Gulf could do serious damag e , " said one western diplomat . Diplomats see the greatest potential danger in more attacks on " soft targets " such as merchant shipping not protected by American or other western navy vessels patrolling the Gulf . The risk of Iranian attack on U.S. Warships or Kuwaiti oil tankers carrying the U.S. Flag and under naval escort is rated by diplomats as low . However , " There is the threat that the Iranians , seeing these heavily protected U.S.-flag tankers , will go for softer targets , " one diplomat said . Tehran Radio quoted Iran 's top defence spokesman Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani as saying yesterday that Washington was " moving to the brink of an armed encounter with us . " The U.S. is increasing its Gulf fleet from seven to 10 warships and sending the refurbished battleship Missouri to patrol just outside the Strait of Hormuz . The build-up ties in with U.S. plans to start escorting Kuwaiti oil tankers next month , which have been re-registered to fly the American flag to give them naval protection . Shipping serving Kuwait has come under repeated attack by Iran , angered at the emi rate 's war backing of Iraq. Concern in the region has mounted over the threat posed by Chinese-made Silkworm missiles , which the U.S. says Iran is preparing to deploy near the Strait of Hormuz . The Missouri , with its four-escort flotilla , is likely to make Iran think twice about using the missiles , diplomats said . A military source in the Gulf has said Iran also set up a launching site for the Silkworms on captured Iraqi soil in the Faw peninsula , within range of Kuwait . " But anything that went as far as a direct attack on Kuwaiti territory would be a very serious escalation " likely moving world opinion against Iran , remarked one . Some diplomats believe Iran could also consider carrying out reprisals against the United States outside the Gulf . Rafsanjani , who is also parliamentary leader , predicted last Friday " a river of blood " throughout the world in the event of any U.S. strike against Iran . Western diplomats said Iran , which Washington has accused of being behind state-sponsored terrorism , had no demonstrable capacity to carry out attacks in the U.S. itself . Diplomats saw few potential targets in Lebanon now that most Americans have left in the wake of kidnappings linked to pro-Iranian groups . But Europe and Asia were potential trouble-spots , and Kuwait was one of the most obvious targets . Any backlash was likely to take the form of sabotage or other action to make it difficult to blame Iran , they added . Reuter 
<TEST	19690	acq>
approved a previously announced merger of the company with a subsidiary of dixons Group PLC . It said Dixons held about 83 pct of Cyclops stock following a tender offer and other purchases earlier in the year . With the completion of the transaction , Dixons will proceed to pay 95 dlrs a share to the remaining Cyclops shareholders . Reuter 
<TEST	19693	interest	money-fx>
government securities market to arrange two-day repurchase agreements for system account , a spokesman for the New York Fed said . Federal funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct at the time of the direct injection of temporary reserves , in line with Friday 's 6.72 pct average . Reuter 
<TEST	19697	acq>
new record date of July 10 for shareholders entitled to vote on the proposed merger of Vernitron with <SB Holding Corp> . The original record date was May 26 . Vernitron said that it currently expects the special shareholder meeting concerning the merger will be held in August . Following its tender offer in November 1986 , SB Holding holds 55.2 pct of Vernitron , a maker of electromechanical components and related products and services . Reuter 
<TEST	19699	acq>
principle to purchase Western Kentucky Gas Co from Texas American Energy Corp for 61.5 mln dlrs in cash plus assumptrion of certain liabilities . Western Kentucky is a gas distribution company which serves about 143,000 customers in 108 towns and communities in Kentucky . Reuter 
<TEST	19702	acq>
said its Gibraltar Savings unit has agreed in principle to buy <First Federal Savings and Loan of Ridgecrest > for about 12.1 mln dlrs cash . The company said the actual price will be determined at the close , based on net book value at May 31 . It said First Federal is located in Kearn County northeast of Los Angeles and has assets of 130 mln dlrs . It said the transaction is subject to a definitive agreement , shareholder and regulatory approval . Reuter 
<TEST	19703	acq>
it completed a land purchase agreement with M.D.C. Holdings Inc <MDC> for 1,090,000 dlrs in notes and preferred stock . The company said it bought 33 lots in Colorado from Richmond Homes Ltd , an M.D.C. unit , in return for 650,000 dlrs in promissory notes and 440,000 dlrs in preferred stock . The company said M.D.C. has an option to convert Winley preferred stock into 20 pct Winley common in a year . Reuter 
<TEST	19711	acq>
its Royal American Foods subsidiary agreed to buy the assets of Landshire Food Products Inc , a New-Mexico-based producer of packaged Mexican food products . Terms of the proposed transaction were not disclosed . Reuter 
<TEST	19713	acq>
Inc told government regulators it holds a 28.5 pct stake in Digiorgio Corp common stock , and said two partnerships making up part of the group may seek control of the company . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Comission , the group of firms said it holds 2,430,100 shares of Digiorgio common stock . Of the total , 2,059,400 shares are held by GAMCO Investors Inc and Gabelli Funds Inc. for investment purposes , the group said . Gabelli-Rosenthal and Partners LP and G and R Partners , which hold the remaining 370,700 Digiorgio common shares , told the SEC their " purpose is to ultimately obtain control of Digiorgio contingent upon approval of Digiorgio , " according to the SEC filing . As previously reported , Gabelli and Co Inc , acting as investment advisor to a group including Gabelli-Rosenthal , proposed on June 25 to acquire all Digiorgio common shares for a per share price of 20 dlrs in cash , a subordinated note with a face value of eight dlrs , 14 pct redeemable preferred stock , and one common share of the post-buyout company . The June 25 buyout proposal , which remains open until July 17 , also provides that key members of Digiorgio management and some of its directors would be invited to remain with the firm and participate in the group acquiring the company . The proposal is also subject to a due diligence review , execution of a merger agreement , arrangement of financing and receipt of government approvals , all of which Gabelli and Co said could be completed within 60 days . Between April 13 and June 26 , the entire group led by Gabelli Group Inc made net purchases of 403,600 Digiorgio common shares at 22.20 dlrs to 26.79 dlrs a share . Reuter 
<TEST	19719	acq>
with its wholly-owned subsidiary , United Insurance Co of America . Under the agreement , each outstanding share of Unicoa common stock will be converted into one share of United common stock . The agreement is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval . Teledyne Inc <TDY> owns about 98.4 pct of Unicoa 's outstanding shares . A shareholder meeting is expected to be held in August . Reuter 
<TEST	19721	grain	corn>
brought further relief to crop areas that had been dry earlier this month , and developing weather patterns will bring welcome moisture to central and eastern belt locations this week , according to Dale Mohler , senior meteorologist for Accu-Weather Inc. " There is going to be more rain for the next two , three days , " he said . " We 're in a fairly wet pattern with normal to above normal moisture this week . " Mohler said rainfall averaged 1/2 inch across southern Minnesota , 3/4 inch over southwest Iowa , one inch in eastern Nebraska and 1-1/2 inches in south-central Nebraska . Illinois fields saw virtually no rain over the weekend but were receiving scattered thundershower activity today , he said . Rain patterns will move across Indiana to Ohio with thudershower activity yielding to more general rains , he said . " T omorrow , that eastern area will get 1/4 to one inch , a pretty good rain , " Mohler said . Rain was heavier than expected over the weekend , sparking an early selloff in soybean futures at the Chicago Board of Trade . Prices were off 14 to 20-1/2 cents with November off 19-1/2 cents at 5.43-1/2 dlrs . Mohler said the cold front now over the eastern belt is expected to move over the central Midwest , then move north later in the week . That could bring new rain patterns across the Corn Belt and assure good crop conditions as early-developed corn moves into the crucial pollination stage in early July , he said . Reuter 
<TEST	19727	acq>
Properties Trust said it reached an understanding to purchase three nursing facilities in Mass . and Conn . for 29 mln dlrs from Greenery Rehabilitation Group Inc <GRGI.O> . The buildings will be leased back to Greenery for an initial term of seven years , subject to renewal options for an additional 23 years , Health and Rehabilitation Properties said . The transaction is expected to close on or before August 31 . Reuter 
<TEST	19731	acq>
of MacGregor Sporting Goods . The company said the stock was acquired through recent open market purchases and the stake does not require specific disclosure . Reuter 
<TEST	19732	acq>
new record date for shareholders entitled to vote on the proposed merger of Vernitron Corp with SB Holding Corp for July 10 . Vernitron , which manufactures electromechanical components and related products and services , said it expects that a special meeting of shareholders will be held in August . Vernitron said that SB Holding holds 55.2 pct in Vernitron , resulting from a tender offer in November 1986 . Reuter 
<TEST	19734	acq>
approved Citicorp 's application to purchase through its subsidiary , Citicorp Savings of Oakland , Calif. , some assets and assume some liabilities of Sears Savings Bank of Glendale , Calif . Citicorp Savings proposed to assume two billion dlrs in deposits and other liabilities and to purchase 1.9 billion dlrs in assets of 50 branch offices of Sears Savings . The proposal involved less than one third of the assets and liabilities of Sears Savings , owned by Sears , Roebuck and Co <S> . The Fed said that it generally has determined there were potentially adverse effects of allowing affiliations of banks and savings and loan associations , although it has allowed bank holding companies to acquire some failing thrifts . It said Citicorp 's proposal " properly may be viewed as the permissible acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of S and L branches rather than the acquisition of an S and L. " Citicorp Savings , the successor to the failed Fidelity Savings and Loan Association , has assets of 4.9 billion dlrs and operates 86 branches in California , mainly in the north . Sears Savings has 6.6 billion in assets and 91 branches predominantly in southern California . The application , which was approved unanimously , will not eliminate Sears Savings as a competitor , the Fed said . Reuter 
<TEST	19737	acq>
it purchased the remaining 225,000 shares of Viratek Inc <VIRA.O> owned by Eastman Kodak Co owned as part of a previously announced program . The company said it paid Kodak 10.50 dlrs a share or 2.4 mln dlrs . As previously announced , ICN also said it authorized the additional purchase of up to 1.5 mln shares of Viratek common . To date , ICN said it bought a total of about 1.2 mln shares of Viratek , including the shares purchased from Kodak . The company said it now owns 56 pct of Viratek as a result of these transactions . Reuter 
<TEST	19744	acq>
privately-held Storage Dimensions Inc for an undisclosed sum . The company said Storage Dimensions incorporates Maxtor 's high-capacity 5-1/4-inch Winchester and optical disk drives into a family of data storage subsystems for IBM PCs , XTs , ATs and compatibles . Storage Dimensions is the creator or SpeedStor software , a utility program that integrates high-capacity disk drives into PCs . Maxtor said the purchase reflects its desire to compete in the high-capacity segment of the PC market . Reuter 
<TEST	19751	acq>
Brookehill Partners Inc told government authorities it may support a buyout of Cardis Corp as a way to maximize the value of the company 's stock . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group disclosed that it currently holds a 5.5 pct stake in Cardis common stock , and said it " would likely support " an acquisition of the company as a whole or in parts by another party , terming such a move " the most likely means for the company 's shareholders to maximize the value of their investment . " Although the group characterized its Cardis stock holdings as principally for investment , it said it intends to contact third parties who might be interested in an acquisition of Cardis , a Los Angeles-based auto parts distributor . The group added its has already had " some contacts " with others concerning the company , but said no understandings have been reached . " The ( Cardis ) common shares continue to offer opportunity for price appreciation on the basis of the company 's asset value and earnings momentum , " the Brookehill group told the SEC . The group , which currently holds 318,900 Cardis common shares , consists of New York-based Brookehill Partners and its two subsidiaries , Brookehill Equities Inc , a brokerage , and Moore , Grossman and deRose Inc , an investment advisor . Walter Grossmman , S. Edward Moore and Robert deRose , all of New York , each own one-third interests in Brookehill Partners . Since April 27 , members of the Brookehill group made net purchases of 6,000 Cardis common shares at approximately 4 dlrs a share . The group told the SEC it may continue to purchase additional Cardis stock , but also reserved the right to sell its shares in the company . Reuter 
<TEST	19756	ship	crude>
would question President Reagan tomorrow about his plan to protect Kuwaiti oil tankers with U.S. warships from attacks by Iran in the Gulf . House and Senate Democrats , who control Congress , have been critical of Reagan 's plan but have not decided how or if they should try to pass legislation to prohibit it . Wright , a Texas Democrat , told reporters the Administration had gone ahead with plans to reflag the Kuwaiti tankers as U.S. ships without asking Congressional leaders for their advice . Reuter 
<TEST	19758	acq>
Travenol Laboratories Inc jointly announced that Caremark shareholders will vote on July 31 to approve the previously announced merger with Baxter . The companies said Caremark shareholders of record as of June 26 will be entitled to vote at the meeting to be held in Newport Beach , Calif , at 1000 PDT . On May 11 , Baxter and Carmark announced a definitive agreement for Baxter to acquire Carmark in a stock transaction valued at 528 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	19760	acq>
Commission charged Allied Stores Corp with failing to promptly disclose key steps it was taking last September to thwart a takeover attempt by Campeau Corp. In an administrative complaint , the SEC said Allied and its legal adviser failed to promptly inform shareholders and the agency that it had begun talks with Youngstown , Ohio , shopping center developer Edward DeBartolo in response to Campeau 's takeover offer . Campeau acquired Allied for an estimated 4.2 billion dlrs on Jan 1 , following a battle with DeBartolo . On Sept 25 , a day after Allied disclosed that its board had urged rejection of Campeau 's Sept 12 tender offer for 58 dlrs a share , Allied began negotiating the sale of six shopping centers to DeBartolo , the SEC said . Allied legal advisor and director George Kern , who heads the merger and acquisitions group at the New York law firm of Sullivan and Cromwell , decided against amending Allied 's SEC filing to disclose the talks even though they had resulted in sales price of 405 mln dlrs for the shopping centers , it said . Securities law requires takeover target companies to promptly disclose such things as the sale of major assets . The day after Campeau increased its tender offer to 80 pct of Allied 's stock from 55 pct and raised its bid to 66 dlrs a share from 58 dlrs on Sept 29 , Allied and a partnership headed by DeBartolo began negotiating a takeover deal aimed at thwarting Campeau , the SEC said . Kern again decided against disclosing the talks in an amended SEC filing , the agency charged . Allied 's first disclosure of the DeBartolo takeover was made on Oct 8 , even though its board approved the merger on Oct 3 and the merger agreement was executed on Oct 7 , the complaint said . DeBartolo and Campeau later engaged in a bitter battle for control of Allied , with Campeau winning out later in October when it bought a block of 25.8 mln shares of Allied stock , or 48 pct of the total , in a controversial move made only minutes after it dropped its hostile tender offer . The acquisition of the additional 48 pct , which a federal judge allowed to be completed , gave Campeau a majority stake in Allied . Campeau bought the rest at 69 dlrs a share . The SEC said it had planned to file a court brief joining with Allied in charging that Campeau had engaged in an illegal tender offer . But the SEC brief was never filed since the case was dropped following an agreement between Campeau and DeBartolo . In the administrative proceeding against Allied and Kern , the SEC is asking for an administrative order that they comply with reporting provisions of securities laws in the future . Although Allied is no longer publicly traded since it became a subsidiary of Campeau , it still files annual and quarterly reports to the SEC because it has outstanding debt . Reuter 
<TEST	19762	acq>
completed the sale seven businesses in its electronics and instrumentation sector for 1.8 billion dlrs in cash and in debt assumed by the purchasers . The company said last December its would sell the units by mid 1987 . It did not identify the buyers . The company said the proceeds will be used to reduce debt , continue the company 's share buyback program , and increase strategic investments in its core businesses and other corporate purposes . It said the units sold were Ampex Corp , Amphenol Prod cuts , Linotype Group , Neptune International , MPB Corp , Revere Corp and Sigma Instruments Inc. Reuter 
<TEST	19763	acq>
information processing systems company , said it purchased the assets of Control Data Corp 's MedTec unit for undisclosed terms . MedTec is a provider of patient accounting and scheduling systems for large scale group medical practices . Reuter 
<TEST	19766	acq>
business will be transacted at the shareholders meeting scheduled for 1000 CDT tomorrow and the meeting will be permanently adjourned . If a definitive agreement or transaction results from any of the offers now pending for the company 's stock , Becor said , a date for a new shareholders meeting will be established . Reuter 
<TEST	19767	acq>
said it has tentatively agreed to sell substantially all its assets for about 79 mln dlrs in cash and notes plus limited profit participation . The company said the terms of the sale have been approved by its board and by Prime Motor Inns Inc <PDQ> , owner of about 84 pct of Universal 's outstanding stock . It described the purchaser as a subsidiary of a company in the communications field which is one of the 100 largest U.S. corporations . The company said the transaction involves the payment of 20 mln dlrs in cash , a non-interest bearing payment of 11.3 mln dlrs in four equal instalments over four years and two promissory notes guaranteed by an affiliate of the purchaser . It said a 31.5 mln dlr 14 pct note is payable in four equal instalments over four years . It said a 16.3 mln dlr 8.5 pct note due Dec 31 , 1992 , includes participation in the 1992 profits of the acquiring company . Universdal said the profit element can be terminated with payments by the purchaser of either five mln dlrs in 1988 , six mln dlrs in 1989 , seven mln dlrs in 1990 or eight mln dlrs in 1991 . Reuter 
<TEST	19769	acq>
to sell its interest in Canbra Foods Ltd to Macluan Capital Corp has been terminated . Union said Macluan failed to make an offer for Union 's 72 pct interest in Canbra before the June 22 deadline . Union said it is no longer bound by the agreement and is continuing to seek a buyer for the interest . Reuter 
<TEST	19773	acq>
letter of understanding to acquire the Parts Catalog Division of <Cutters Exchange Inc> for an undisclosed amount . SSMC , spun off from the Singer Co <SMF> a year ago , said that the Parts Catalog Division wholesales parts and needles to the industrial sewing trade in the U.S. Under the agreement , key managers and employees of the Parts Catalog Division in Nashville , Tenn , will relocate to the SSMC facility in Murfreesboro , SSMC said . Reuter 
<TEST	19775	interest>
notified the Netherlands that it was terminating the 1948 income tax treaty as it applies to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba . The termination is effective January 1 , 1988 , the Treasury said in a two-sentence announcement . The Treasury decided to end the treaty after negotiations between the United States and the Netherlands over the past eight years had failed to reach an accord , a Treasury spokesman said . The decision means the sale by U.S. parent companies of Eurobonds through Netherlands Antilles subsidiaries will no longer be free of the 30 pct U.S. withholding tax , the spokesman said . Terminating the tax treaty with the Netherlands Antilles may cause bond issuers to call in the bonds early . Most have maturities of 10 years or less and were issued before 1984 , the spokesman said . He said the Treasury did not expect the action to have an adverse effect on U.S. issuers of the bonds because the general decline in interest rates means they will be able to refinance at lower interest rates . However , the holders of the bonds presumably will be faced with lower yields . Reuter 
<TEST	19780	acq>
a letter of intent to exchange 2.2 mln of its shares for all Orbis Communications Inc stock within the next 60 days . It said the Carolco shares used in the exchange are valued at 7.00 dlrs a share or a total value of 15.4 mln dlrs and will be adjusted based on the price of Carolco shares on the closing date . It said Orbis management will remain in place for at least three years . Reuter 
<TEST	19796	acq>
directors unanimously approved an agreement and plan of merger providing for the merger of Seton with a unit of S Acquisition Corp , a New Jersey company . Seton said its board of directors unanimously approved the merger in a meeting held today . Seton said the agreement and plan of merger provides that all shares of Seton Co common stock not held by S Acquisition Corp , or its units , will be converted upon the merger into the right to receive 15.88 dlrs per share in cash . Reuter 
<TEST	19799	acq>
respond to an unsolicited recapitalization plan proposed by Gabelli and Co Inc after the company , its board and its investment bankers evaluate the proposal . Earlier , Gabelli said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it holds a 28.5 pct stake in DiGiorgio and that it , together with Gamco Investors Inc may seek control of the company . In addition , on June 25 the Gabelli group proposed to acquire all of Di Giorgio 's common shares for a combination of 20 dlrs per share in cash , a subordinated note with a face value of eight dlrs and one common share of the post-buyout company . The June 25 buyout proposal remains open until July 17 . Reuter 
<TEST	19810	acq>
completed its merger with Standard Oil Co of the U.S. <SRD> , raising its holding to 100 pct from 55 pct , BP said in a statement . The acquisition was made through BP 's wholly-owned subsidiary <B P America Inc> . BP took a 25 pct stake in Standard in 1970 , raising its stake to 53 pct in 1978 and 55 pct in 1984 . BP chairman Sir Peter Walters will be chairman of BP America , while Robert Horton is to be vice-chairman and chief executive officer , with Frank Mosier as president . BP said further details would be released on July 21 . Reuter 
<TEST	19826	acq>
completed the acquisition of Canton Telephone Co and is now operating the company . Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed . Canton Telephone serves about 2,900 access lines in northwestern Pennsylvania and had 1986 operating revenues of about 1,300,000 dlrs , Rochester Telephone said . Reuter 
<TEST	19828	acq>
in and around San Francisco over the past seven years have had only a modest effect on the metropolitan area 's economy , a leading business-backed organization said . The Bay Area Council , a group of more than 300 business firms , said that a study of corporate restructuring in a nine-county area found that San Francisco itself had suffered some ill effects from corporate shake-ups but that surrounding communities had not . Seventeen of the 32 Fortune 500 companies in the area left due to corporate restructuring between 1979 and 1986 , but another 21 firms were added to the list . Ten of the departing companies were based in San Francisco . During the period , only six located in the city achieved Fortune 500 status . Ted Hall , a council director and local managing director of McKinsey and Co. which conducted the survey , said the study grew out of concern that mergers and acquisitions had seriously hurt the economic climate of northern California . However , Hall said that only about 36,000 jobs had been lost in the region , while more than 600,000 new jobs were created during the period . At the same time , he said , the region experienced a greater rise in per capita income and lower unemployment than the rest of the United States and California . Council President George Keller , who also is chairman and chief executive officer of Chevron Corp. , told a news conference that the region had difficulties in persuading companies to locate there because of a fragmented local political system . But he said that because of the amenities of living in San Francisco , he was the envy of many chief executives in other metropolitan area . " It 's a great place to run a business ," he added , " but it 's a hell of a place to do business with government . " The study concluded that Chevron , which mergered with Gulf Oil in 1984 , would benefit in the long run from the restructuring activity . Among the corporate headquarters lost during the period were Crown Zellerbach , Memorex , Southern Pacific , Castle & Cooke and Rolm . Companies that grew enough during the period to make the Fortune 500 list included Apple Computer , Pacific Telesis , McKesson , Tandem Computer , U.S. Leasing and Amfac . The study by the management consulting firm said that , partly due to corporate restructuring , the rate of job growth in San Francisco has slowed since 1980 . In addition , it said that the loss of corporate leadership had adversely affected some of the Bay Area 's civic and charitable activities . Reuter 
<TEST	19830	acq>
International N.V. shareholders approved the acquisition of the company by Pittston . Terms of the transaction call for Pittston to exchange 0.523 of its own common shares for each outstanding WTC share , Pittston said . WTC is engaged in domestic international air freight , ocean and surface freight forwarding and consolidation and distribution services . Reuter 
<TEST	19831	acq>
Florida F.S.B. <HFBF.O> said it has scheduled a special shareholders meetng for July 26 to approve proposed changes to the bank 's charter and merge with Barnett Bank Inc 's Barnett Bank of Pinellas County , N.A. Home Federal said the meeting is to approve a definitive agreement signed May 26 , calling for each share of Home Federal 's common stock to be exchanged for about 40 dlrs in market value of Barnett common stock . The exchange would be based on conversion of Home Federal shares of not less than 1.935 or more than 1.200 shares of Barnett stocks . At 40 dlrs a share , Home Federal said the total market value of the transaction would be about 175 mln dlrs . Home Federal said notice of the meeting and related proxy materials , which has been filed previously with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Home Loan Bank board , were mailed on June 26 , to holders of record on June 15 . Reuter 
<TEST	19832	crude>
Corp 's <CHV> Chevron Exploration North Sea Ltd may indicate a new field with recoverable crude oil reserves of 300 mln barrels , industry analysts said . Chevron said a sidetrack well on block 16/26 on the U.K. Continental shelf tested 9,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) of 20 API crude oil from the tertiary " Alba " sand through a three-inch surface choke . " The estimated amount of oil at the Alba field is around 320 mln barrels , " Paul Spedding of stockbroker Kleinwort Grieveson and Co told Reuters . He said industry estimates put the total reserves at the field at over one billion barrels , but given the low gravity of oil , the recovery rate would be expected to be around 20-25 pct . Analysts said the results were encouraging , but the potential difficulty of operating and recovering oil in the field was shown by the fact that the first well had to be plugged and a sidetrack drilled . " The field seems to be shallow and widespread , which will require a multi-platform development in recovery , pushing costs up ," Christopher Osborne of stockbroker Hoare Govett said . Most analysts said that although the low gravity of the oil found would require additional costs in recovery , the test well showed that it flows well . " Although the gravity of oil at the field seems to be low , it seems to flow quite well and around 300 mln barrels could be recovered , " Carol Bell of Phillips and Drew told Reuters . However , Chevron officials declined to comment on the analysts ' reserve estimates . They said that without further research and drilling in the area this summer , they would not disclose any reserve figures . Analysts said that if the field were declared commercial and developed , there would be a ready local market for the heavy crude it produced . " Most refineries are now upgraded to refine heavy oils and the price differentials between heavy and light crudes are a lot narrower today , " Osborne said . Chevron operates the block on behalf of 16 companies which include British Petroleum Development Ltd , DSM Hydrocarbons ( UK ) Ltd , Enterprise Oil ( TNS ) Ltd , Marathon Int . Pet . ( GB ) Ltd and Phillips Petroleum Co U.K. Ltd. Reuter 
<TEST	19833	acq>
registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering two issuer tender offers . It said one offer its directed to its class A common stock holders and another to holders of its 8-1/4 pct debentures due March 1 , 1989 . The planned offer for common stock holders calls for the company to exchange either 30 dlrs in cash , or 35 dlrs principal amount of 13 pct subordinated debentures due September 1 , 1997 , or one share of a new class B common stock , for each class A share held , Arden Group said . It also said the cash payment is subject to proration . In addition , the company said it plans to offer to exchange one dlr principal amount of 13 pct debentures due September 1 , 1997 for each outstanding one dlr principal amount of 8-1/4 pct debentures . Reuter 
<TEST	19835	grain>
private sector to export cotton and rice in a new trade policy announced to cover the next three years . Commerce and Planning Minister Mahbubul Haq said in a televised speech it was also decided to allow duty-free import of cotton yarn . Cotton and rice are Pakistan 's main exports , which have been handled exclusively by state corporations since early 1970s . Haq said now the private sector would export cotton and rice along with the state corporations . He said duty-free import of cotton yarn was allowed to make high quality yarn available to local ancillary industries and to enable them to compete effectively in the world market . This would help overcome domestic shortages of yarn , he said . Reuter 
<TEST	19837	acq>
its shareholders approved at a special meeting the company 's acquisition of Equitable Life Leasing Corp for 263.3 mln dlrs . Equitable Life Leasing Corp is a subsidiary of Equitable Investment Corp , which is owned by the Equitable Life Assurance Co of U.S. Lomas said the acquistion price will consist of one mln in cash , 1.5 mln shares of the company 's common stock , 71,000 shares of a new series C preferred stock , and 8.944 mln dlrs principal amount of nine pct senior notes due 1994 . The company added that the acquisition will close June 30 . Reuter 
<TEST	19839	acq>
co-chairmen , Michael Landes and Albert Schwartz , and its vice chairman , Michael Spiegler , have acquired a 50 pct equity interest in <Clearview Baking Corp> for undisclosed terms . A. Dale Mayo , Clearview 's president and chief executive officer , will retain a 50 pct interest in the company , ALMI Group said . Reuter 
<TEST	19844	crude>
of its 221,000-bpd OPEC quota during the second half of this year , Energy Minister Fernando Santos Alvite told a news conference . Ecuador plans to produce 280,000 bpd in August , rising to 320,000 bpd next January , the minister said . " We will be producing more than the quota to pay off the crude and products we have been lent by Venezuela , Nigeria and Kuwait and to compensate for the crude we have been unable to produce during the past few months , " he said . Earthquake damage to a pipeline sharply cut Ecuadorean production from March to May this year . Santos said the move had been explained to fellow OPEC members during last week 's meeting in Vienna , when an increase in Ecuador 's quota to 221,000 bpd from 210,000 was approved . " They understood our position and we believe we remain within the spirit of the ( quota ) agreement , " he said . Immediately before the March quake Ecuadorean production was 250,000-260,000 bpd , with 144,000 bpd exported . While its production was down , Venezuela , Nigeria and Kuwait loaned Ecuador a total 12 mln barrels of crude and four mln barrels of products , Santos said . Reuter 
<TEST	19860	acq>
acquisition of Frostex Foods Inc for undisclosed terms . Kraft said last month it had signed a letter of intent to acquire the Austin , Texas-based foodservice distributor . Reuter 
<TEST	19864	acq>
purchase of Emhart Corp 's United States aluminum electrolytic capacitor business for an undisclosed sum . The company said the capacitor business is part of Emhart 's electrical and electronic group marketed under the Mallory brand name . The company said the product lines it acquired had sales of 25 mln dlrs last year . Reuter 
<TEST	19866	acq>
will sell its Trotter Treadmills Inc unit . The company said the sale is in line with its strategy of refocusing on its health care service business . It said it had received interest from several parties , but no agreement has yet been reached . Trotter Treadmills makes motorized treadmills for the exercise enthusiast and fitness club market . It said its sales for this year are projected to be over 10 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	19869	money-fx	crude>
exchange rate for oil and mining export earnings , setting it at 14.50 bolivars to the dollar from 7.50 bolivars previously , Minister Manuel Azpur UA said . Azpur told reporters after a cabinet meeting that the measure is " fundamental to conserving the economic and financial strength of the petroleum industry . " He said the new exchange rate , which goes before the central bank for final approval tommorrow , will allow the state oil company Petroleos De Venezuela , S.A.(PDVSA ) to solve its problem of working capital and implement investment plans , estimated at 20 billion bolivars for 1987 . He did not say when the measure would become effective . Venezuela 's oil industry previously sold its dollar earnings to the government at 7.50 to the dollar but bought foreign exchange from its imports at 14.50 bolivars . The new exchange rate will promote purchases of domestic goods and services by the industry , Azpur said . He added that it would also put PDVSA in a position to purchase more government debt bonds . PDVSA had available liquid assets of 20 billion bolivars at the start of this year , of which nine billion were in a trust fund in the Central Bank of Venezuela ( BCV ) and placed in government bonds . According to a contract between PDVSA and the central bank , the BCV must provide cash as the oil industry requries by repurchasing the bonds . PDVSA 's contribution to the treasury last year was 44.480 billion bolivars . It foreign earnings for oil and petrochemcial sales were 8.023 billion dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	19870	acq>
Control Data Corp 's <CDA> MedTec unit for an undisclosed sum . The company said Med Tec 's new client base could have a significant impact on long-term revenues , although it expects a minimal positive impact on earnings in the next six months . It said the assets purchased include processing agreements , software maintenance contracts and the supporting software . Reuter 
<TEST	19874	acq>
to exchange its interest in Oklahoma oil and gas properties operated by Reserve Exploration Co <REXC.O> for 638,435 restricted Reserve common shares . The company said it will have a 44 pct stake in Reserve 's outstanding shares as a result of the exchange . Reuter 
<TEST	19875	interest>
tumbled 14.9 pct in May from April levels because of higher mortgage interest rates , analysts said . " There should be another month or two of very weak new home sales but with interest rates stabilizing , sale of new homes should become more stable by mid-summer , " said economist Lawrence Chimerine of Wharton Econometrics Inc. The drop in May , to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 616,000 units , was the largest since January 1982 , the Commerce Department said . Interest rates on conventional mortgages bottomed out at about 9.08 pct in March and rose to about 10.7 pct in April , according to Stephen Roach , economist at Morgan Stanley . The effect was to freeze some potential new homebuyers out of the market , he and others said . " The rates moved very suddenly and were certainly unexpected by homebuyers , " said Cynthia Latta , an economist with Data Res ources. " They were so startled , they wanted to hold back and see what would happen . " The drop in sales of new single-family home sales was sharper than expected , some economists said . " We fully expected a decline but the extent was more than we anticipated , " said James Christian , chief economist for the U.S. League of Savings Institutions . Christian said there was a sharp rise in May in sales of existing homes , which are generally less expensive than new homes . Latta of Data Resources said strong sales of new condominiums in the Northeast and on the West Coast were reflected in sales of existing but not new homes . Christian of the U.S. League of Savings Institutions said , " Underlying housing demand remains strong . I think the market is going to stabilize and give us a good second half . " Others were less optimistic , however . " We clearly wo n't have a boom ( in new home sales ) but I do n't think this is the start of a collapse in single-family housing , " said Chimerine of Wharton . Eugene Sherman , chief economist of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York , said , " The lower sales level will be maintained for awhile until there is another change in rates . There wo n't be much specific improvement in coming months . " Reuter 
<TEST	19880	acq>
of Fort Worth , Texas said it owns 786,800 shares of Bell and Howell Co common stock , equal to 8.9 pct of the company 's common stock outstanding . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group said it purchased 511,500 Bell and Howell common shares between April 29 and June 26 at 44.25 dlrs to 56.02 dlrs a share . The stock was acquired for investment purposes , the group said , adding it may purchase or sell additional shares in the future . Reuter 
<TEST	19882	ship>
apparent escalation of Iranian rhetoric with continued assurances that its expanded military force in the Gulf would play purely a deterrent role . " I can only emphasize that our role there is deter rent , that we 're going to be assuring safety for American shipping and that that shipping is not related to the war itself , " State Department spokesman Charles Redman told reporters . He was asked about Iranian claims that the United States was moving towards the brink of armed conflict with Iran . Tehran Radio quoted defence spokesman Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani telling a visiting Nicaraguan delegation yesterday , " At the moment the United States is moving towards the brink of an armed encounter with us . " We are not concerned about this and believe that the U.S. Presence in the war will make our nation even more serious . We are determined to stand firm and will certainly win . " The United States disclosed last week it was beefing up its Gulf fleet from seven to 10 warships and also sending the refurbished battleship Missouri to patrol just outside the strategic Strait of Hormuz , entrance to the Gulf . The buildup ties in with U.S. Plans to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers which have been re-registered to fly the American flag and gain naval protection against Iranian attacks . Asked about the Iranian rhetoric , White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said , " We wo n't have any comment or response to the Iranian statements . Our position has been made clear about the status of events in the Gulf . We want an end to the war with no winners and no losers and any activities or statements that tend to prolong the war or increase hostilities are not helpful or welcome . " Redman said he could not independently confirm reports that Iran has offered to halt attacks on Gulf shipping . Reuter 
<TEST	19890	acq>
Inc agreed in principle to settle pending litigation regarding the sale of Torotel 's former Halcyon Communications Inc unit to CXR in March , 1986 , the two companies said in a joint statement . The agreement calls for CXR to pay to Torotel 1,350,000 dlrs in exchange for return of a 2.5 mln dlr note and five mln CXR common shares valued at 1,7754,000 mln dlrs , the companies said . In June , 1986 CXR filed the suit in San Francisco federal court , charging that the 10.3 mln dlr price it paid for Halycon was excessive , Torotel said . It also said that in is suit CXR asked for seven mln dlrs in damages , along with an unspecified punitive award . Reuter 
<TEST	19892	acq>
bought cable television systems in six Dutchess County , N.Y. , communities from Dutchess County Cablevision Associates Ltd. The company said the acquisition of the new systems will add to its presence in New York . It said it will add 4,400 subsribers to its 568,000 subscriber base . Reuter 
<TEST	19895	acq>
its North American unit , Austec Inc , completed the purchase of privately-held Ryan-McFarland Corp for an undisclosed sum . The company said the two units combined are expected to have net revenues of about 25 mln dlrs in 1987 . Ryan-McFarlnad develops COBOL and FORTRAN language compilers for the mic ro , mini and mainframe computer markets . Austec International is based in Melbourne , Australia . Ryan-McFarland is located in Rolling Hills Estates , Calif . Reuter 
<TEST	19902	acq>
in the Securities and Exchange Commission 's administrative proceeding against Allied Stores Corp , which Campeau acquired at the end of last year . In a statement , the company said , " The SEC action involves events that occurred prior to Campeau 's acquisition of Allied relating to the alleged failure of Allied to make certain disclosures . Consequently , Campeau is not subject to the procedings . " Reuter 
<TEST	19903	crude>
subsidiary said it in consortium with <Inelectra> received a contract from Corpoven S.A. , a Venezuelan-owned domestic oil company , to revamp and expand its El Palito Refinery . Kellogg said the installed cost of the work to be performed is estimated to be 130 mln dlrs . Inelectra , Kellogg said , is a major Venezuelan engineering firm . Kellog said the project will enable the refinery to produce BTX products benzene , toluene , and orthoxylene by processing naphtha feed from an expanded reformer-hydrotreater . Kellogg said the refinery 's reformer-hydrotreater will be upgraded to 9,500 barrels a day capacity from 7,500 . It said the new BTX process units include aromatic extraction , xylene fractionation , xylene isomerization and thermal hydrodealkylation . Kellogg pointed out that Venezuela now imports all of its BTX aromatics . Reuter 
<TEST	19906	acq>
shareholders approved the sale of its computer hardware business to SCI Technologies Inc. The transaction is expected to close this week . At its annual meeting , Fortune said shareholders also voted to change Fortune 's name to Tigera Inc. Its principal subsidiary is Tigeral Corp. Reuter 
<TEST	19912	acq>
said it terminated takeover discussions with a U.S.-based investors group after the group was unable to establish access to funds to complete the proposed transactions , contrary to previous assurances . TecSyn previously said it and its controlling shareholders accepted in principle a proposal from the group to offer nine dlrs a share for 70 pct of Tec Syn 's outstanding shares . The investor group also planned to invest 22.5 mln dlrs in a private placement of four mln non-voting TecSyn common shares , the company said . Reuter 
<TEST	19918	trade	trade>
must double over the next five years if the mideast nation 's goal of economic independence is to be achieved , said Gad Yaacobi , Israeli minister of Economy and Communication . Speaking before an American-Israel Chamber of Commerce semi nar , Yaacobi said that in 1986 Israeli exports to the U.S. were over 2.3 billion dlrs or about one-third of Israel 's total exports , while imports from the U.S. were around 1.8 billion dlrs or roughly one-sixth of the total . " I am convinced that Israel exports to the U.S. can reach five billion dlrs in the next five years , if we learn to function in the American marketplace and place greater emphasis on product quality , " Yaacobi said . While the weakening of the dollar vis-a-vis European currencies is a " bottleneck to increasing exports to the U.S. , " Yaacobi said he expects Israel to extend its recent trend toward higher U.S. exports . In the last ten years , Israeli exports to the U.S. rose fivefold , from 417 mln dlrs to 2.3 billion in 1986 , while imports rose from 888 mln dlrs to 1.8 billion last year . Yaacobi said export growth must increase ten to eleven pct annually , the rate achieved until the 1973 Yom Kippur War . He said that the U.S./Israel Free Trade agreement , passed last year and eliminating all duties and other commercial restrictions between the two nations through 1994 , would continue to facilitate the desired export growth . Dual agreements included in the FTA allow Israel to act as an economic bridge between the U.S. and Europe , enabling U.S. firms to export to Europe at lower cost if a certain percentage of the exported is produced in Israel , and vice-versa . Yaacobi said that tensions among the nations of the middle east was one of the main reasons Israel had not yet been able to achieve its economic potential . Since 1973 the U.S. has given Israel 25 billion dlrs in aid , but most of it went to defense expenditures and financing military conflicts " which were imposed on Israe l , " he said . Short of achieving Israel 's full growth potential , however , Yaccobi said it would still be possible to achieve economic independence by 1993 or 1994 , based on the assumption that exports can be doubled from 1986 levels in that time period . Reuter 
<TEST	19927	crude>
a 1988 budget proposal for 183.432 billion bolivars , based upon an oil price of 16.35 dlrs per barrel , finance minister Manuel Azpurua said . Azpurua told reporters after a cabinet meeting the new budget projects ordinary income of 149.925 billion bolivars and extraordinary income of 34.186 billion . Oil revenues are expected to produce 92.014 billion , or 61 pct of the total . The finance minister said the oil revenue projection is based on an average price of 16.35 dlrs per barrel in 1988 . Venezuelan oil through the first half of 1987 has averaged 16 . 20 dlrs per barrel , according to the state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela , S.A. Reuter 
<TEST	19930	acq>
Hanover , West Germany , jointy announced they signed an agreement for Continental to buy Gencorp 's General Tire Inc subsidiary for 650 mln dlrs in cash . Under the agreement the companies said Continental will acquire General Tire , including its related domestic and foreign operations , and Gencorp will retain liability for the medical benefits of retired General Tire employees who retired on or before November 30 , 1984 . The sale is expected to be completed on or before November one and is subject to meeting certain conditions . Continental is Europe 's second largest tire producer . Last year , the company had sales of 2.6 billion dlrs , with 1.9 billion dlrs generated by its tire operations . Last year , General Tire had operating profits of 79 mln dlrs on sales of 1.1 billion dlrs , and Gencorp had operating profits of 130 mln dlrs on sales of 3.1 billion dlrs . GenCorp spokesman Rip Tilden said the company will retain about 100 mln dlrs in liability for its former General Tire employees under the agreement . Tilden said Gencorp will use the proceeds from the sale to reduce its 1.5 billion dlr debt . In April , GenCorp sucessfully thwarted a takeover by a partnership formed by AFG Industries Inc <AFG> and Wagner and Brown with a restructuring program that included the purchase of up to 54 pct , or 12.5 mln shares , of its common at 130 dlrs a share for a total of 1.6 billion dlrs As part of the restructuring , GenCorp also said it planned to sell its tire business , the bottling operations of its RKO General Inc subsidiary , and RKO 's remaining broadcast properties to focus on the company 's aerospace and automotive components businesses . Tilden said Gencorp expects to realize about 850 mln dlrs in after tax proceeds by the end of 1987 as a result of sale of several pieces of the nonbroadcast assets of the company , including general tire . " The price paid for General tire would not cause us to reevaluate that estimat e , " said Tilden . General Tire employs 10,000 people worldwide and has four tire manufacturing plants in the U.S. and one in Canada . In a statem net , A. William Reynolds , GenCorp chairman said the sale of General Tire " represents a critical accomplishment in our plan to restructure GenCorp . " Reynolds also said GenCorp 's previously announced sale of its other businesses are " proceeding satisfactorily . " Among the pieces of Gencorp 's empire that remain to be sold are its RKO bottling operations . GenCorp agreed to sell RKO 's KHJ-TV station to Walt Disney Co <DIS> for 217 mln dlrs . That deal awaits approval by the Federal Communications Commission . GenCorp also received 257 dlrs after tax from the sale of RKO 's WOR-TV . Reuter 
<TEST	19935	acq>
definitive agreement to acquire Robert Scott Ltd Inc , David Brooks Ltd Inc and Andrew Harvey Ltd of Dedham , Mass . Terms were not disclosed . Combined sales of the three companies in 1986 were over 50 mln dlrs , it said . The deals are expected to be completed by July 31 , Kellwood said . Reuter 
<TEST	19943	acq>
Associates Inc said it agreed with Fox Technology Inc <FOXT.O> to buy its Fox Research Inc unit for a cash payment and the assumption of liabilities of around 10 mln dlrs . The company said part of the agreement includes payment of up to an additional 6.5 mln dlrs based on the performance of the unit in the year following the closing . The company said the deal is expected to be closed in mid-August . Fox Research develops , makes and markets local area networks for personal computers . Reuter 
<TEST	19946	acq>
has concluded that the merger proposal submitted by Rorer Group Inc <ROR> merits further consideration . At the request of the board , Rorer has agreed to extend until 1800 EDT July 2 its deadline for response from A.H. Robins . After Rorer announced its second bid for the company last Thursday , analysts forecast that the Robins family , which holds control of the company , would vigourously oppose any merger . But , the analysts added , that Robins desire to emerge independent from two years of bankruptcy proceedings may be thwarted by some Robins ' shareholders who perceive a merger as a more expedient way of dealing with the company 's Dalkon Shield related liabilities . After a failed first attempt earlier this year , Rorer 's latest merger plan calls for a share swap worth about 720 mln dlrs . Rorer would also set up two trusts to cover the estimated 1.75 billion dlrs in liabilities to deal with about 320,000 claims by women who suffered maladies from the use of the Dalkon Shield interuterine device . Reuter 
<TEST	19947	trade	grain>
cotton and rice export in a three-year new trade policy aimed at narrowing the country 's yawning trade gap . Commerce and Planning Minister Mahbubul Haq said in a televised speech the government had also decided to allow duty-free import of cotton yarn to make the textile industry more competitive , and to link bulk tea imports to the export of Pakistani products . Cotton and rice are Pakistan 's main exports , which have been handled exclusively by state corporations since early 1970s . But Haq said now the private sector would also export cotton and rice along with the corporations , which meets a long-s tanding demand of the local traders . The duty-free import of cotton yarn has been allowed to bring down prices and help the local ancillary industries compete effectively in the world market , he said . Haq said the new policy , effective from the fiscal year 1987/88 beginning on July 1 , would be for three years but reviewed every year . It was a departure from the previous practice of announcing trade policies for a single fiscal year , and Haq said it would enable the businessmen to plan their market strategies over a longer period . He said an export credit of 250 mln dlrs had been provided for the export of engineering goods to selected third world countries on soft credit terms . Pakistan 's 1986/87 exports at 3.6 billion dlrs , 18.2 per cent more than in the previous year , and imports at 5.23 billion dlrs compared to 5.63 billion dlrs in 1985/86 . He said the government policy was to rationalise and streamline import controls . " It has been observed that due to restrictions on imports , specially on raw materials and intermediate goods , local industry has been suffering for want of necessary inputs , " he said . " Prices have been on the increase and quality of goods produced has been low . This restrictive policy also gave rise to smuggling and hampering of exports . " He said that to correct this situation , 136 items had freed from import restrictions . Previously , Pakistan has met its trade gap largely from remittances from its nationals working abroad , mainly in the Gulf . However , the remittances have begun to fall after the drop in oil prices in recent years leading to the spectre of a balance of payments crisis for Pakistan . Reuter 
<TEST	19950	acq>
into the California market with Citicorp Savings ' acquisition of 50 of Sears Roebuck 's <S> Sears Savings Bank branches , bringing its presences to 143 branches in 101 communities , CitiCorp Savings said . Thrift industry analysts said the move , approved by the Federal Reserve board today , is a plus for Citicorp and shows its serious intent to penetrate the California market . The acquisition mostly extends Citicorp 's reach into Southern California , where 34 of the 50 branches are located . Citicorp Savings was predominantly in Northern California . " This marks our first major expansion in California , particularly in the south , " said Citicorp Savings President Edward Valencia , in a statement . Thrift industry sources said they do not see a major near-term impact on the Southern California thrift market , but do expect Citicorp to be a more aggressive competitor than Sears was in that market . " We do believe they will be a better competitor than Sears , " said James Stutz , Executive Vice President of Home Federal Savings and Loan Association <HFD> , based in San Diego . Banking industry sources said the move is viewed as groundwork , to establish Citicorp throughout the California market , well before the 1991 law change that will allow it to operate as a bank in the state . They said Citicorp is likely to convert the branches to banks at that time . In the near-term , however , analysts said with seven billion dlrs in assets , Citicorp Savings is still not a major force in the thrift market , against such large California thrifts as Home Federal , Great Western Financial Corp <GWF> , H F Ahmanson and Co <AHM> , Golden West Financial <GWD> and Great American First Savings Bank <GTA> . Reuter 
<TEST	19955	acq>
equipment unit is the most likely candidate for sale by the Atlanta-based telecommunications company , Wall Street analysts said . " Executone is at the top of the list , " said one analyst , referring to Contel 's loss-riden telecommunications equipment unit . " The question is , who would take it ? " he added . The company , forecasting a 15 pct drop in 1987 operating earnings over last year , said late today that it is reviewing all operations in an effort aimed at " maximizing long-term stockholder value . " Analysts also said Contel 's federal systems division , which has been hit with several executive defections , may also be put on the block . Contel officials declined to comment on the possibility of selling any operations . However , the company indicated in a statement that it was closely evaluating the telecommunications and federal systems units . Reuter 
<TEST	19959	acq>
agreed to sell its 25.2 pct interest in CDC Life Sciences Inc to Caisse de depot et placement du Quebec , the provincial pension fund manager , and Institut Merieux , a French biological laboratory company , for 169.2 mln dlrs . It said the caisse and Institut Merieux will each buy 2.75 mln common shares of the company for 30.76 dlrs a share . It said following the transaction the caisse will hold about 19.3 pct of CDC Life Sciences . Canada Development said the purchasers do not plan to acquire the remaining publicly-held shares . Reuter 
<TEST	19962	acq>
special meeting of Cyclops Corp approved the previously announced merger of Cyclops with Dixons . Under the terms of the merger , Dixons said the remaining public Cyclops shareholders are to receive 95 dlrs a share . Dixons also said the previously announced sale of Cyclops steel and nonresidential construction businesses to a former Alleghany Corp <Y> subsidiary is expected to be completed June 30 . After the sale , Cyclops will retain its specialty retailing business and change its name to Silo Inc , said Dixons . Reuter 
<TEST	19963	acq>
increased its cash takeover bid for Sullivan Mines Inc shares to 7.25 dlrs a share . It did not give the original bid . The offer is for a minimum five mln common shares and a maximum six mln shares , the company said . It gave no further details . Reuter 
<TEST	19964	grain>
meeting between U.S. and Soviet officials before the two countries enter the final year of their bilateral grains agreement , Agriculture Department officials said . The two sides usually try to meet as each new year of the agreeement approaches although the last meeting was delayed up to last February . However , any delay this year should not endanger the fifth year of the grains agreement that extends through September , 1988 , USDA officials said . " It will be difficult to pull together the people for the meeting during July , " an aide to USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said . Since the last meeting was only around four months ago , the next talks could still be a " couple more months , " he said . There has been grain industry speculation that the USDA will offer Moscow another wheat subsidy during the next marketing year . But USDA officials said even if consultations were held soon a subsidy offer would probably not be made . " I doubt that there would be any subsidy offer this summer or before the next agreement year begins , " a USDA source said . Citing limited subsidy funds and uncertainties about next year 's crops , he said , " There are too many variables now . It would be uncharacteristic of us to make an offer now . " Under the nonbinding pact , Moscow has agreed to purchase a minimum of nine mln tonnes of U.S. grain per year . Soviet and U.S. officials normally meet in the summer before the start of a new agreement year to discuss grain quality , shipping logistics and production outlooks . Reuter 
<TEST	19968	acq>
the government to proceed cautiously on a plan allowing the nation 's two largest intercity bus companies to merge their operations , a move one of the firms said may derail the deal . Justice 's opposition to quick federal approval of a bid by Greyhound Lines Inc to take immediate control Trailways Corp prompted Greyhound to threaten in a brief filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission ( ICC ) to drop the merger plan . Greyhound officials told Reuters late today the company hoped for ICC action on the merger by tomorrow . " Greyhound Lines will go forward with the transaction only if it is permitted to assume immed iate , unconditional control of Trailways ' operations and to integrate them with its operations , " Greyhound said in a filing with the ICC , the federal regulatory agency which has the final say over mergers of interstate bus companies . But Justice had said in an earlier filing with the ICC that it wanted the agency to move slowly on the plan and to turn down Greyh ound 's request to begin operating Trailways immediately . " The department has just begun to receive relevant information on Trailways ' financial condition and is in the process of assessing the correctness of the company 's allegations , " acting Assistant Attorney General Charles Rule said in comments submitted to the ICC . Greyhound announced June 19 that it wanted the ICC to let it begin operating Trailways immediately while continuing to evaluate the merger for possible antitrust problems . Greyhound said it would pay 80 mln dlrs for many of Trailways ' terminals , buses and garages . The two companies said in papers filed with the ICC that Trailways " could collapse in a matter of days . " They said Trailways owed suppliers more than six mln dlrs , with another six mln dlrs due June 30 . The suppliers , they said , could force Trailways into bankruptcy " at any time . " Trailways also owes a consortium of banks 76 mln dlrs , and the consortium has threatened to call the loan if Trailways fails to pay the interest due June 30 , they said . Reuter 
<TEST	19975	acq>
Schlumberger Ltd jointly announced that Schlumberger had acquired Allied-Signal 's Neptune International unit . Terms were n't disclosed . Atlanta , Ga.-based Neptune , which makes water meters and flow measurement equipment , had sales last year of 80 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	19981	acq>
Associates Inc <DCAI.O> said it has entered into an agreement to acquire substantially all the assets of Fox Technology Inc 's Fox Research Inc subsidiary . The company said it will assume about 10 mln dlrs of Fox liabilities with a provision for a further 6.5 mln dlrs based on the future financial performance of Fox during the one year period following the closing of the deal . It said the acquisition is subject to approval by Fox shareholders and is expected to close in mid August . Reuter 
<TEST	19983	acq>
Corp said it agreed to buy all of the capital stock of Kraft Inc 's wholly owned subsidiary D and K Financial Corp. Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed . D and K , with assets of more than one billion dlrs , is one of the leading U.S. companies involved in the leasing of fleets of cars , according to GE Credit . Jim Ahtes , a spokesman for GE Credit 's outside public relations firm , Manning , Selvage and Lee Inc , emphasized that the terms of the acquisition had not yet been approved . Reuter 
<TEST	19984	acq>
( IEP ) the Hong Kong-listed unit of Brierley Investments Ltd <BRYA.WE> , said it has lifted its stakes in British oil company Ultramar Plc <UMAR.L> and U.S. Firm <Ogelbay Norton Co> . IEP told the Stock Exchange it now holds 36.03 mln Ultramar shares representing 13.07 pct of the issued capital . It holds 388,600 shares in Ogelbay representing 11.68 pct of the Delaware-based company . No other details were available . REUTER 
<TEST	19989	money-fx>
said the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) nations still support the Louvre Accord to stabilise currencies . He also told a news conference following a cabinet meeting that the Group of Five ( G-5 ) and G-7 do not have any plans to meet for talks . The Finance Minister further said that overseas stock market plunges will not lead to a freefall in the Tokyo stock market . " There is no special worry about the stock market in Tokyo , " he added . Miyazawa said the Tokyo stock market should not be gravely affected by the downturns of markets in New York and London because there is a clear sign of an economic recovery in Japan and stability of exchange rates . Asked if the U.S. Had contacted Japan after the stock market plunge in New York , Miyazawa said there was not any contact . REUTER 
<TEST	19993	money-fx>
said that remarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker on Sunday that some nations were not abiding by the spirit of the Louvre Accord were just aimed at reaffirming that agreement . The agreement , to cooperate in stabilising currencies , was reached in Paris in February this year . The finance minister made the remark at a news conference which followed a morning cabinet meeting . REUTER 
<TEST	19996	crude	ship>
Attacked an Iranian oil platform on Monday . " Japan , deeply concerned over the increasing threat to the ships navigating in the Gulf , understands the circumstances that have led the United States government to take these measures , " the Foreign Ministry said in a statement . The statement added that the threat to free and safe navigation had increased after the missile attack on a U.S.-flagged tanker in Kuwaiti territorial waters last Friday . REUTER 
<TEST	19998	crude>
despite the U.S. Attack against Iranian oil platforms and growing tension in the Gulf , Venezuelan Energy Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said on Monday . He described the situation as "extremely tense , " but said Gulf military activity would not significantly affect prices because supply and demand were roughly equal . Demand for OPEC crude in the final quarter of 1987 was 18.5 mln barrels per day ( bpd ) and the group 's members were now pumping above 18 mln bpd , he told a news conference . Hernandez Grisanti said the supply/demand balance was precarious and prices were in danger of falling from their current average of about 18 dlrs per barrel if overproduction continued . Three or four members of the 13-nation Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries were " overproducing in an exaggerated manner " above their assigned quotas , he said . OPEC 's overall ceiling is 16.6 mln bpd . REUTER 
<TEST	20001	money-fx>
Japanese will finally move out of dollar investments in a serious way , Japan investment managers say . The Japanese , the dominant foreign investors in U.S. Dollar securities , have already sold U.S. Equities . But " if the dollar falls steeply , which did not happen yesterday , Japanese investors will definitely try to withdraw significant funds from U.S. Shares , " said Akira Kawak ami , deputy manager of Nomura Investment Trust and Management Co Ltd 's international investment department . An unstable , lower dollar would also affect Japanese investment in U.S. Bonds. " Japan-U.S. Interest rate differentials , which currently look wide enough , mean nothing in the absence of dollar stability , " said Kawakami . U.S. Bonds could benefit due to a gloomy economic picture following the estimated huge losses in stocks by major U.S. Institutional and individual investors , he said . The effect should be to rule out any U.S. Interest rate rise . But most Japanese investors in U.S. Bonds are still wiating to see if the dollar really is stable , he said . The dollar was holding firm at above 142 yen on Tuesday morning . " Although Japanese investors sold huge amounts of stocks in New York yesterday , most are still looking for chances to lighten their U.S. Stock inventorie s , " Hiromitsu Sunada , manager of Meiji Mutual Life Insurance Co 's international investment department said . Their sales helped send Wall Street stocks down 508 points to 1,738 , the market 's biggest percentage drop since 1914 . " Investment in U.S. Stocks and bonds is difficult , considering the dangers , " said Katsuhiko Oki yama , deputy general manager and chief adviser of Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd 's fixed income securities marketing group . Japanese investment at home could start to pick up once markets have stopped reacting to Wall Street , the managers said . The Tokyo yen bond market is likely to stabilise in one or two weeks , which is what investors have been waiting for . The bottom for yen bonds should be around a 6.3 pct yield for the 5.1 pct 89th bond , they said . " The basic background which has supported the stocks and bonds markets has not changed , " said Norio Okutsu , assistant general manager of Nikko Securities ' bond department . " But new outflows of funds to the U.S. Will be decreasing . " However , this was already evident three months ago , he said . REUTER 
<TEST	20008	crude>
Petro nas , has advised the government to raise crude oil output to 540,000 barrels a day ( bpd ) in 1988 from a current 500,000 bpd , a senior company official said . " We have the capacity to produce the amount , " Rastam Hadi , Petro nas 's Vice-President for Upstream Sector said . The government will announce its decision on Friday when it unveils the country 's budget . Malaysia raised output this month to current levels from 420,000 bpd after reviewing the world oil market . In May , Malaysia cut output to 420,000 bpd from 459,000 in response to a call by OPEC to boost prices . REUTER 
<TEST	20012	money-fx>
he welcomed Monday 's U.S. And West German joint confirmation of their commitment to the Louvre accord . Sumita said in a statement that world stockmarkets were excessively concerned about the economic future . The Bank of Japan will continue to adhere to a system of policy coordination based upon the Louvre accord of February , he said . The accord called for stability in foreign exchange rates . Exchange rates generally are regaining stability and the economies of industrialised nations are heading for a steady recovery , he said . REUTER 
<TEST	20013	money-fx>
there was no evidence to suggest the fall in share prices had affected financial stability and it would maintain its firm monetary policy . Governor Spencer Russell said in a statement the central bank did not accept arguments that the battle against inflation should now take a low second priority after the sharemarket 's plunge . Russell said the bank had two statutory responsibilities to implement the government 's monetary policy to bring down inflation , and to ensure the financial sector 's stability . " Unless the bank is directed otherwise , the firm monetary policy will continue because it is very much in the national interest that it do so , " he said . " And there is yet no evidence available to the bank to suggest that the fall in share prices has affected the stability of the financial secto r . " The Barclays share index fell a record 504.75 points to 2,925,26 on Tuesday , a decline of 14.7 pct . REUTER 
<TEST	20018	grain	corn>
53,000 tonnes of maize to Malawi , Mozambique and Zaire , radio Tanzania said . The radio said the grain would be delivered soon , but gave no details about the value of the sales . Tanzania is expecting a record maize harvest of 2.3 mln tonnes in the 1987/88 financial year ending June , up from a bumper crop of 2.1 mln in 1986/87 . REUTER 
<TEST	20021	interest>
Philippines was closely monitoring interest rates in the wake of Monday 's record drop on Wall Street and steep declines in Manila and other Asian stock markets . " We will monitor these developments closely and will continue to hope that they do not precipitate large declines in economic activity around the world , " Aquino told a meeting of 13 major Philippine business groups . " The Philippines , as a trading country in the world economy , depends on the continued health and growth of both the world economy and the world trading system , " she said . The Manila Stock Exchange composite index plunged 105.49 points or 11.79 pct by the midday close to 789.54 , depressed by the record 508 point fall of the Dow Jones industrial average on Monday . " The Philippines , in addition , as a large borrower nation , is affected by developments in interest rate levels around the world and will carefully monitor the impact of these developments on interest rates , on gold and on commodity prices , " Aquino said . " We welcome the statements from world leaders that urge calm in the present difficult situation ," she added . REUTER 
<TEST	20030	crude	ship>
conflict in the Gulf closed the Strait of Hormuz , but oil supplies could be adjusted to take care of world demand , Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto said . He made no explicit reference to the latest U.S. Military action in the Gulf . But in an address to a conference of the Indonesian Petroleum Association , he said , " If worst comes to worst and say the flow of oil through the Straits of Hormuz is completely shut off , I believe the world oil supply , given time to adjust , can take care of the situation . " " But this is not to say that prices , at least for a short duration , will not skyrocket as speculators take advantage of the situation ," he declared . Tensions in the Gulf , however , usually had a relatively short-term impact on prices , he added . Assessing future price trends , he said , " S hort-term spot prices will probably still fluctuate , but they will most likely hover around the official Opec price basket of 18 dlrs per barrel . " The upward deviations , however , are likely to be greater than the downward ones . " " The balance between supply and demand in the short term will still be delicate , " he added . " Non-Opec production may still go up , competing with Opec for the expected additional increase in world demand . " Subroto , a member of Opec 's three-man quota committee which has been touring cartel members , said speculation may play havoc with spot prices , but Opec was trying to stabilize the situation by urging cooperation by non-Opec producers . In the medium term , non-Opec production would reach a plateau in the early 1990s , leaving Opec much stronger , he said . REUTER 
<TEST	20034	ship>
spotting a floating mine in the central Gulf on Tuesday about 50 miles west of Lavan Island , regional shipping sources said . The Khark III , owned by the National Iranian Tanker Co , gave the position of the mine as 27 degrees 14 minutes north , 52.06 east . There was no indication of measures being taken against the mine , which is in Iranian territorial waters . REUTER 
<TEST	20035	acq>
chief executive David Palmer said the company would consider any bid for its 20.8 pct shareholding in Morgan Grenfell Group Plc <M GFL.L> but had not yet received any offers . " We will entertain any approaches , " he told Reuters in reply to questions , following U.K. Press speculation . In an earlier statement , Faber said that if an offer were to be received for its stake in the merchant banking group , " it would be considered on its merits . " REUTER 
<TEST	20037	acq>
Allied Lyons Plc <ALLD.L> subsidiary <Hiram Walker-Goodman & Worts > is to buy the spirits business of <McGuinness Distillers Ltd> of Toronto for 45 mln Canadian dlrs . McGuinness is a producer and marketer of spirits and also has exclusive agencies for some imported wines and spirits . The sale is subject to the approval of the Bureau of Competition P olicy . Michael Jackaman , president and chief executive officer of Hiram Walker and Allied Vintners , said , " The acquisition is an excellent one both commercially and financially . " REUTER 
<TEST	20038	interest>
interest rates are a cause for concern and the Bundesbank has no interest in higher capital market rates , Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said . " We consider the interest rate increase that has occurred here and internationally to be a problem and cause for concern , " Poehl told an investment conference . " I would like to stress that the Bundesbank has no interest in higher capital market rates , " he said . Shortly after Poehl spoke , the Bundesbank announced a tender for a securities repurchase pact at a fixed rate of 3.80 pct . Previous tenders over the last month by interest rate have seen the allocation rate on these facilities rise to 3.85 pct at last week 's pact from 3.60 on the last fixed-rate tender in late September . The Bundesbank 's reduction of the key allocation rate to 3.80 from 3.85 pct was heralded Monday by repeated injections of money market liquidity at between 3.70 and 3.80 pct . These moves to cap interest rates followed a meeting between Poehl , Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker Monday in Frankfurt . Officials said afterwards the three men had reaffirmed their commitment to the Louvre accord on currency stability . Over the weekend , criticism by Baker of the tightening in West German monetary policy had prompted a sharp fall of the dollar on speculation that Louvre cooperation had ended . But the dollar rallied on news of Monday 's meeting in nervous trading to trade above 1.79 marks Tuesday . Poehl said that the recent rise in interest rates was not due to central bank policy , but to markets ' expectations , and currency developments . Commenting on the inflationary expectations , Poehl said " You have to get to the root of the problem , you have to pursue a policy which reveals that there are no grounds for such fears. " The inflationary fears were unjustified and exaggerated , he said . Poehl rebuffed recent U.S. Criticism of West Germany , saying the Bundesbank had made a substantial contribution to international cooperation in interest and monetary policy . The Bundesbank has tolerated an overshooting of its money supply target , arousing criticism from other quarters , he said . " Today we still have lower interest rates than at the end of 1986 Quite the contrary of other countries , where interest rates have risen substantially more , " Poehl said . This had to be taken into account when considering recent rises in repurchase pact allocation rates , which were due to rising international money market rates that had spilled over into the German market , he said . Poehl expressed surprise that financial markets had so far ignored improvements in the U.S. Deficits . " The adjustment process in the U.S. Trade balance is definitely underway , " he said , noting that this was not so noticeable in absolute figures . The spectacular improvement in the budget deficit had also attracted little attention , he said . REUTER 
<TEST	20039	acq>
Lawson said the Government was going ahead with this month 's flotation of British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> shares despite the collapse on international stock markets . " We are going ahead because the whole issue has been underwritten we had it underwritten because there is always a risk of this sort of thing happening , " Lawson said in a BBC radio interview . Lawson 's remarks came as renewed selling on the London stock market took BP shares down a further 33p to 283 , well below the 330p price set for the around seven billion stg issue . Lawson said the U.K. Economy is fundamentally sound and added that stock markets had reflected that recently . " I profoundly believe in the market system as the best way for securing economic prosperity ( but ) that does not mean to say the markets are infallible . " " My advice to small investors ...Is to remain calm . There is absolutely no reason not to do so , " Lawson said . REUTER 
<TEST	20048	interest>
the Bank of Japan from raising its discount rate and could even force it to ease monetary policy if the collapse continues , government and private economists said . A rise in interest rates now would only serve to spark further selling of shares that could ultimately have a major deflationary impact on the real economy , they said . Although Bank of Japan officials have consistently maintained that they had no plans to raise the 2.5 pct discount rate , many in the markets have thought otherwise . Fears of a rise in the discount rate were fanned by the central bank 's apparent decision last week to countenance higher rates on commercial bills , dealers said . But today 's stock market collapse prices fell nearly 15 pct means that the Bank of Japan would be hard pressed to raise the discount rate now , despite its concerns about a renewed outbreak of inflation , dealers and economists said . Japanese government bond prices rose sharply today as the markets concluded that the stock market 's collapse precluded the central bank from carrying out the widely-rumoured discount rate increase . A senior government economist suggested that both the U.S. And Japan needed to ease monetary policy now to prevent a further drop in New York and Tokyo stock prices . " They need to support the stock and security markets , " he said . But Bank of Japan officials said they saw no need to change policy for the moment , although one admitted that the central bank may have to rethink its strategy if Tokyo stock prices continue to plunge during the rest of the week . Both government and Bank of Japan economists agreed the economy is better placed now to cope with the deflationary impact of plunging stock prices than it was a few months ago . With the economy recovering strongly , the steep drop in stock prices is not likely to put a major dent in consumer and business confidence , one government economist said . " There will be some impact on the real economy , but it wo n't be that big , " said another . Individuals are not heavily invested in stocks on their own , although they do participate through trust funds and other investment vehicles . And while many manufacturing firms turned to financial market investments for profits during last year 's economic downturn , the recent rebound has allowed them to refocus their attention on their core businesses , he said . Paradoxically , it is the pick-up in the economy that is partly to blame for the stock market collapse as companies have shifted funds away from financial investments to increase inventories and step up capital spending , one government economist said . In deciding what response to make to the steep stock price drop , the Bank of Japan must first determine whether prices will continue to fall further and then decide if they pose a greater economic danger than the threat of higher inflation , one central bank official said . " That will at least take a couple of days , if not weeks , " he said . REUTER 
<TEST	20052	grain>
Research Institute ( IRRI ) said West German agricultural scientist Klaus Lampe will take over as its director-general in early 1988 , succeeding M.S. Swaminathan . An IRRI statement said Lampe , 56 , is currently senior adviser to the German Agency for Technical Cooperation at Eschborn and was a former head of the agriculture section of the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation . It said Swaminathan , who has headed IRRI since 1982 , will concentrate on environmental and agricultural issues . REUTER 
<TEST	20071	money-fx>
Stoltenberg said the meeting on Monday with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker underscored the determination of the U.S. And West Germany to continue close cooperation to stabilise foreign exchange rates . Stoltenberg told a news conference " The statement released yesterday ( Monday ) after the private meeting Emphasized our determination to continue the close economic cooperation regarding foreign exchange stabilization and monetary policy . " Stoltenberg said that he , Baker and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl had a very constructive discussion and had all reached a positive evaluation of the Louvre accord during their meeting on Monday . Stoltenberg said initial contacts with several European counterparts showed that they shared this view . " We expect the declaration of our unified position to have a positive effect , " he said . He noted that the dollar firmed again in late U.S. Trading after the outcome of the Baker meeting was published . REUTER 
<TEST	20080	money-fx>
Stoltenberg said the Louvre accord was vital to West Germany . Stoltenberg told a news conference " Given West Germany 's unusually high dependence on world trade and exports , it is vital for West Germany To continue its constructive contribution to trusting ( international ) cooperation on the basis of the Louvre accord . " Some monetary analysts have speculated that inflation-conscious Bundesbank vice president Helmut Schlesinger may have been leading the central bank to a course of tighter monetary policy . Stoltenberg is due to attend a routine Bundesbank meeting on Thursday in West Berlin . He declined to forecast what , if any , policy decisions the Bundesbank might take . REUTER 
<TEST	20087	money-fx>
Stoltenberg declined to comment on whether unpublished target zones for currencies agreed at last February 's Louvre accord had been changed as a result of the meeting on Monday with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker . He was asked about target zones at a news conference in B onn . Stoltenberg referred to a statement released after Monday 's meeting , which said continuing cooperation was aimed at promoting currency stability at current levels . This was the same formula used in the text of the Louvre accord , he noted . REUTER 
<TEST	20089	money-fx>
Stoltenberg said he could not rule out the possibility of central bank intervention to support currencies . Asked at a news conference whether central banks were prepared to intervene to defend currencies , he said " We cannot rule out the use of any instrument which leads to foreign currency stabilit y . " However , he added that in the end , it was market forces which preva iled . REUTER 
<TEST	20090	crude>
in the Gulf both of which were still blazing caused damage estimated at 500 mln dlrs , Tehran Radio quoted Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh as saying . The rigs , one of which was heavily shelled by four American destroyers on Monday , were still burning almost 24 hours after the attack and could cause widespread pollution in the Gulf , the minister told a news conference in Tehran . He said the Reshadat rigs , 120 miles ( 200 k m ) east of Bahrain in international waters , were in the final stages of reconstruction after an attack by Iraqi jets last year . REUTER 
<TEST	20092	crude	ship>
reiterated his country would retaliate for U.S. Navy attacks on Gulf oil platforms . " The U.S. Attack on Iran 's oil platforms jeopardises our national sovereignty And we will retaliate properly for this perfidious American aggression , " Mousavi told a news conference in Damascus . On Monday U.S. Navy warships blasted the Rostam plat form , and Navy personnel stormed a second platform a few miles away . Washington said the operation was aimed at destroying positions used by Iran to track and assault neutral Gulf shipping . REUTER 
<TEST	20093	crude>
Pertamina has found new offshore oil and gas resources in East Aceh , on the western tip of northern Sumatra , a company spokesman said . The spokesman said the discovery was made at the GOS I A-1 offshore exploratory well about 38 kms east of Langsa in Aceh . " O il and gas are found in sand layers at the depth of 2,300 metres within the Baong formation , " he said . He said preliminary tests showed that the well could flow oil at the rate of 1,320 barrels a day with 50 degrees API at 20 degrees centigrade through a 5/8 inch choke . " The well also flows natural gas at the rate of 12 mln standard cubic feet a day , " he added . GOS I A-1 well , located at a water depth of 41 metres , was drilled under a production sharing contract between Pertamina and Japex North Sumatra Ltd , each having 50 pct shares . " Petroleum operations are to be carried out by Pertamina as operator through a joint operating body established by the two companies , " the Pertamina spokesman stated . The contract covers the Gebang block contract area . The two companies have previously completed the drilling of GOS II A-1 exploratory well , around 14 kms south of GOS IA-1 . REUTER 
<TEST	20095	crude>
Tuesday it will extend contracts on producing blocks and improve the investment climate , but wants to see increased expenditure on exploration in return . President Suharto , in an opening speech to the Indonesian Petroleum Association , said Indonesia was ready to extend contracts held by foreign oil companies on producing areas . " In order to boost investment in the petroleum industry , the government of Indonesia has basically approved of extending production sharing contracts under the present laws , " Suharto said . " A part from that , the government will keep improving the investment climate in order to accelerate the development of the petroleum industry , " he said . Indonesian Energy Minister Subroto told the Association he was aware that the oil industry needed to be assured that contracts on blocks expiring within the next 10 years would be renewed before they would invest in further exploration . "As we all have heard this morning , the President is fully aware of this situation ," Subroto said . " The government has already made the political decision to entertain this time problem by inviting the existing producers to continue their activities in Indonesia , albeit on a selective basis . " Indonesia , one of the 13 members of OPEC , must find new oil reserves if it is to remain an exporter in the next decade , oil industry sources say . Subroto said the government was also working to ease other problems , including granting easier terms for remote areas or deep water conditions . But Subroto said relations with oil companies were two-way and that they should step up expenditure on oil exploration now that the oil price had recovered . President Suharto said he wanted to see greater transfer of technology to Indonesian companies , and more help from the oil industry for the regions in which companies operated . Abdul Rachman Ramly , the President of state oil company Pertamina , has said that budgeted exploration and production expenditure for all oil companies in Indonesia was forecast to fall to 3.1 billion dlrs in calendar 1987 from 3.4 billion in 1986 . Pertamina has 69 production-sharing or joint operation contracts with foreign oil companies . Subroto said speeding up necessary approvals for field operations was a government priority . There had been misunderstandings between the government and the oil industry in certain areas , such as when a field is designated commercial , and a thorough evaluation was being made . He said the government wanted to finalise contract extensions as soon as practical , and urged the industry in the meantime to maintain its exploration drive . Subroto said Indonesia needed the companies to maintain exploration efforts , even if their contract was due to expire within 10 years . " This need in itself is some sort of guarantee that we will soon have to come up with an extension agreement . " Eleven major contract areas are due to come up for renewal between 1991 and 2001 , industry sources said . Extension of the contracts on the blocks has involved detailed negotiations but so far no extension has been granted . Subroto told reporters afterwards that contract extensions would be selective , based on how much capital would be invested . REUTER 
<TEST	20101	crude	ship>
compensation from the U.S. Over the American raid on its Gulf oil plat forms , Tehran radio quoted Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh as saying . The lawsuits would be filed with competent international bodies once the exact damage was calculated , he was quoted telling a news conference in Tehran . He earlier estimated the damage from the U.S. Raid at about 500 mln dlrs . The rigs , one of which was heavily shelled by four American destroyers on Monday , were still burning almost 24 hours after the attack , he said . Aqazadeh said the half-billion-dollar damage estimate was preliminary . Washington has said the attack was in response to a missile strike against the American-flag tanker the Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters on Friday . He denied that there was any military hardware on the rigs " except a 23 mm machinegun for air defence . " Reacting to Weinberger 's remark that Washington considered the case closed , Aqazadeh said " Iran will also consider the case closed after its retaliatory measure . " Iranian officials have said their response would not be limited to the Gulf and U.S. Interests around the world might come under attack . Aqazadeh said the U.S. Military presence in the Gulf aggravated the regional crisis and made access to the region 's oil more difficult , but he did not see the U.S. Attack significantly affecting oil prices . IRNA said he gave no explicit reply when asked if the attack would prompt Iran to block the Hormuz Strait at the entrance to the Gulf . " If Iran cannot use the Hormuz Strait , no other country can either , and this would be to everyone 's harm , " the radio quoted him as saying . REUTER 
<TEST	20103	crude	ship>
reiterated his country would retaliate for U.S. Navy attacks on Gulf oil platforms . " The U.S. Attack on Iran 's oil platforms jeopardises our national sovereignty And we will retaliate properly for this perfidious American aggression , " Mousavi told a news conference in Damascus . On Monday U.S. Navy warships blasted the Rostam plat form , and Navy personnel stormed a second platform a few miles away . Washington said the operation was aimed at destroying positions used by Iran to track and assault neutral Gulf shipping . REUTER 
<TEST	20114	acq>
previously-announced offer to purchase 664,400 common shares of Holly Sugar Corp at 95 dlrs each . In a newspaper advertisement , the firm said the offer , proration period and withdrawal rights expire November 17 unless extended . The offer , which has been approved by the Holly board and is to be followed by a merger in which remaining shares are to be exchanged for cumulative redeemable exchangeable preferred stock , is conditioned on receipt of at least 664,400 shares , which would give Plum a two thirds interest , and the receipt of financing . Reuter 
<TEST	20137	acq>
authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to seven mln of its common shares , or about 21 pct , for cash in open market purchases or private transactions . The company said it repurchased 2,100,000 shares under an April authorization to buy back up to three mln shares and authorization for further repurchases under the old program has been withdrawn . Yesterday , GAF said a group led by chairman Samuel J. Heyman has decided to reconsider its offer to acquire GAF. GAF said a revised offer by the group is still possible . Reuter 
<TEST	20142	acq>
board has decided to take additional time to evaluate the impact of litigation on the proposed acquisition of <Hemdale Film Corp> . Computer Memories said it plans to adjourn its annual shareholders meeting , scheduled for October 23 , after it is convened . One purpose of the meeting is to consider the transaction , the company explained . Computer Memories said Hemdale agrees with this course of action . Reuter 
<TEST	20159	interest>
Inc said they are cutting their prime lending rate to 9-1/4 pct from 9-3/4 pct , reversing an increase that they announced just last week . The reduction is effective immediately . No other major U.S. bank had followed the lead of Chemical and Marine Midland , preferring to keep their prime rates at 9-1/4 pct while they waited to see what course money market rates would take . Following Monday 's record fall in Wall Street stock prices , money market rates fell sharply on Tuesday as investors ploughed proceeds into short-term instruments and the Federal Reserve said it is prepared to provide liquidity to support the economy and the financial system . Eurodollar deposit rates in London fell by as much as 9/1 6 percentage point , Treasury bill rates fell by as much as half a point ( after falling between 59 and 84 basis points on Monday ) , and the Fed funds rate dropped to 7-1/4 pct from Monday 's average of 7.61 pct . Speculation even surfaced of a discount rate cut to calm the markets , dealers said . Reuter 
<TEST	20210	acq>
on its proposed acquisitions of Overland Express Inc and privately-held Continental Training Services Inc have been terminated by mutual agreement . The company said the recent declines in stock prices have made it unlikely that the transactions could qualify as tax-free reorganizations . Reuter 
<TEST	20216	acq>
directors amended the company 's shareholder rights plan in moves it said were designed to preserve stockholder protection and provide flexibility to the plan . Yesterday , Crazy Eddie agreed not to oppose a slate of candidates to its board proposed by the Committee to Restore Stockholder Value , a shareholder group led by the <Oppenheimer-Palmieri Fund L.P.> and Entertainment Marketing Inc <EM> , that has been seeking to oust current management . Crazy Eddie said the new amendments limit future amendments to the plan , modify the definition of " continuing directors " and permit amendment or termination of the plan with the consent of the company 's shareholders if there are no continuing directors in office or the approval of at least three such directors cannot be obtained . The company also said it approved a certificate of designation with respect to its 4.5 mln shares of authorized , but previously undesignated and unissued shares of preferred stock and adopted an employee stock ownership plan . Crazy Eddie also that it requested that the shareholder group make a commitment not to take the company private until Crazy Eddie has had a chance to recover from current financial difficulties , a committment that the group rejected . Crazy Eddie said it will hold its annual shareholders meeting on November 6 . Reuter 
<TEST	20231	grain	wheat>
urgent need for a U.S. wheat subsidy offer , and it is unlikely that such an offer will be ma during the U.S./Soviet summit expected to be held next month , Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng told Reuters . In an exclusive interview with Reuters , Lyng said he did not know if the United States will offer Moscow another wheat subsidy offer this year or when that offer will be made . " L ast year it was well into the year before we offered it . There 's been nothing that 's taken place to indicate to me that there 's a pressing need on their part for that sort of deal ( a wheat subsidy ) . " When asked if a subsidy would be offered at a U.S./Soviet summit , Lyng said , " No , I do n't think so . I do n't think that . " The Agriculture Secretary said a U.S. wheat subsidy deal to Moscow would not be the kind of topic appropriate for discussion at a summit . " It would not be the kind of issue that the President or the Chairman would get into specific negotiations or discussions about , " Lyng said . " When Mr. Nikonov ( communist party secretary for agriculture ) was here he indicated that trade in wheat was not something that would be discussed with the President of the United States . He said it 's not presidential , " Lyng said . Lyng said uncertainties about wheat quality in some major producing areas of the world , volatile wheat prices and the still unfinished Soviet grain harvest could delay any final decision on the timing of another wheat subsidy to Moscow . The future of the U.S./Soviet long-term grains agreement will be discussed the first of next year , Lyng said , but the Agriculture Secretary questioned the benefits of the long-s tanding agreement . " We 've had three years in a row in which the Soviets have failed to live up to their end of the agreement We would love to continue to keep doing busines with the Soviet Union , but do we need a long-term agreement . Who benefits from that . These are some of the questions we need to discuss . " When asked if he felt the United States has benefitted from the agreement , Lyng said , " I do n't know . It certainly has n't been what we had hoped it would be . For three years running they 've ( Moscow ) failed to live up to what we considered was an agreement . " Reuter 
<TEST	20239	grain	wheat>
Algeria 's bid for 75,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat , but rejected bids for the remaining 225,000 tonnes under its export bonus tender , U.S. exporters said . USDA accepted Algeria 's bid of 94.00 dlrs per tonne , c and f , for 50,000 tonnes for Nov 10-25 shipment and 25,000 for Nov 20-Dec 10 , the sources said . It rejected bids for wheat for later shipment dates , they said . Reuter 
<TEST	20258	grain	wheat>
November its tender for 75,000 tonnes of wheat under the export bonus program , originally scheduled for today , U.S. exporters said . Reuter 
<TEST	20259	money-fx>
support for the Louvre Accord cannot cure the fundamental problems bedevilling the world economy which lie behind the current collapse in stock markets , London economists said . " There 's going to have to be some acknowledgement that the dollar is going to be allowed to slip , " said Richard Jeffrey of Hoare Govett . " If not , there is going to be continued fear that when pressure emerges on the dollar , the Fed will be forced to tigh ten . This throws up the economic abyss of recession in the U.S. With obvious knock on effects on the rest of the world . " But some economists added that Wall Street 's crash , which dragged other major markets down with it , may help curb the very problems that sparked the turmoil namely world inflation fears and the massive and persistent U.S. Trade deficits . " If there is a benefit from a 23 pct fall in Wall Street ...It 's some sort of resistance to inflation worldwide , " said Geoffrey Dennis of brokers James Capel , echoing comments from other London and Tokyo analysts . Lower personal wealth from lower stock prices and fears of further falls should dampen credit growth , curbing inflationary pressures and import demand in the U.S. , They say . Such considerations may be helping bond markets resist the equity crash , according to Mike Osborne of Kleinwort Grieveson . " It would be suicidal for any government in the context of what happened in the last couple of days to jack up their interest rates , " he added . Stocks surged after news Chemical Bank cut its prime lending rate half a point to 9.25 pct Tuesday and U.S. Fed chairman Alan Greenspan pledged support for the financial system . The news eroded the most immediate fears that the stock collapse would spill over into the economy , via a banking crisis for example , thus precipitating recession . It also helped the dollar rally sharply , to a high of 1.8200 marks from a European low of 1.7880 . But economists said today 's whiplash moves do not have long term significance and that markets should try to keep the underlying fundamentals in mind . " The United States has been able to live on borrowed time . If the effect of this ( crash ) is to produce slower economic growth not recession ...It contains good news ( and ) provides a more realistic assessment of the U.S. Economy , " said Capel 's Dennis . But he added that markets are still very much in danger . " The liquidity does n't disappear ...All it 's doing is disappearing from the equity markets , " Dennis noted . David Morrison of Goldman Sachs International said world market turbulence will be exacerbated if the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) leading western nations confirms a base for the dollar , as implied by West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg 's remarks that intervention to support currencies is still on . Last week 's dollar fall was partly triggered by expectations that the Germans were more worried about the money supply impact of such intervention than maintaining currency stability . But rigid adherence to dollar ranges would be bad , said Morrison . " The Louvre Accord is fundamentally misconceived . To stabilise the dollar at too high a level is wrong , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	20261	ship>
by the Danish International Development Agency ( DANIDA ) have arrived in Dar es Salaam where they will help to increase the port 's cargo handling capacity , port officials said . The two new container cranes join one Danish container crane already installed in the port , which is an important trade outlet for Tanzania , Zambia , Malawi and eastern Zaire . Five more cranes from Finland are due to arrive soon , increasing the container terminal 's handling capacity to 120,000 units per year from 30,000 at present , the officials said . Reuter 
<TEST	20262	interest>
surge in U.K. September sterling bank lending is unlikely to nudge the Bank of England towards tightening monetary policy as long as sterling remains in its present robust state , economists said . An acute crisis of confidence in equity markets over the past two days will in any case subdue personal consumer credit demand which has largely been behind growth in lending . " In the normal course of events the markets would have been extremely worried about that figure , " noted Peter Spencer , U.K. Economist with Credit Suisse First Boston . After an initial dip in reaction to the bank lending data , which compared won stg August rise , U.K. Government bonds ( gilts ) soared as investors continued to flee from plummetting equities into the relative security of government securities . Equity markets dropped sharply on the news , touching a day 's low of 1,766.7 on the FTSE 100 index after the data , before staging a recovery . Sterling held its buoyant tone throughout . U.K. Money market rates , in a similarly calm response , resumed the slightly easier trend of earlier in the morning after little more than a token blip as the figures came out . Noting that such a huge rise in credit extended by banks would under other circumstances have prompted market fears of a rise in clearing bank base rates from the current 10 pct , " With the financial markets doing what they 're doing , that 's the last thing the Bank of England would want to do , " Spencer said . " The monetary situation is clearly very bad but as long as sterling is firm , the authorities are unlikely to put rates up ," said Kevin Boakes , chief U.K. Economist at Greenwell Montagu Gilt Edged . Boakes pointed to a rise in the narrow money measure M0 to 5.2 pct year-on-year from August 's 4.5 pct growth , which he said must cause some concern at the Treasury . But " The fact that overall broad money growth has slowed down is a rather encouraging sign , " noted Paul Temperton , U.K. Economist with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets . He pointed to a fall in the year-on-year growth rate of the M3 broad money aggregate to 19.5 pct in September from August 's 22 pct . It was concern about credit growth which prompted the Bank of England to engineer a one point rise in U.K. Bank base rates to 10 pct in early August , caution endorsed subsequently by news of a massive 4.9 billion stg July rise in bank lending . Temperton noted that a particular focus of bank worry in that period had been the behaviour of U.K. Asset markets . Housing and equities were the key two asset markets in influencing consumer behaviour , he said . In the light of the precipitous falls on U.K. Equity markets in the past few days , " There will almost certainly be a straightforward impact on consumer spending and on retail sales , " Temperton said . " Almost certainly we can look forward to slower growth in consumer borrowing if the equity shakeout continues , " he added . " I think the stock market has decided that the bank lending figure is a thing of the past ...We are talking about a very serious panic and a flight to quality , " Spencer said . A U.K. Treasury official said that it was important to look at all the monetary information , not just the bank lending , adding that monetary aggregates were growing much more slowly than bank lending . Senior banking sources noted that the surge in bank lending was evidence of the continuing recent trend of fairly heavy personal sector borrowing . Figures from the Banking Information Service showed personal sector lending by U.K. Clearing banks rose by 1.66 billion stg in September after a 978 mln stg August rise . Much of the rise reflected quarterly interest payments . REUTER 
<TEST	20263	money-fx	interest>
the government securities market to add reserves via customer repurchase agreements , economists said . They expected the amount to total around 1.5 billion to two billion dlrs . Economists added that the low rate on federal funds indicates the Fed is unlikely to add funds agressively through overnight system repurchases , unless it feels the need to calm volatile financial markets . Federal funds were trading at 7-1/8 pct , down from yesterday 's average of 7.61 pct . Reuter 
<TEST	20270	crude>
pct to 1.07 mln barrels per day ( bpd ) from 830,492 bpd in August , according to a Reuter survey of firms operating here . Operators said the sharp rise reflected higher output at several of Norway 's biggest fields and resumed production at fields shut down for 27 days in August for the Ekofisk field rescue project . Industry analysts said the increase did not exceed Norway 's voluntary move to curb by 7.5 pct planned growth in its oil output , a move designed to back OPEC-led efforts to stabilise oil prices by limiting supplies to world crude markets . Norway , not an OPEC member , decided in June to extend the production restraints , enforced since February 1 1987 , on all its North Sea fields for the rest of the year . Oil Minister Arne Oeien said last month he expected Norway would extend into 1988 its policy of slowed production growth . The biggest increase was seen on the Ekofisk field , which pumped 168,023 bpd in September against 48,195 bpd in August , field operator Phillips Petroleum Norway Inc said . Ekofisk and the nearby Valhall and Ula fields , which use the Ekofisk pipeline , were shut down for most of August while Phillips raised Ekofisk platforms to counter seabed subsidence . BP Petroleum Development Norway Ltd , operator of the Ula field , said September output rose to 86,727 bpd after dropping to 27,237 bpd in August because of the shutdown . Val hall , operated by Amoco Norway A/S , flowed 74,694 bpd last month compared with 69,748 bpd in August , the company said . September production was also sharply higher at the Statfjord field . Norway 's 84 pct share of Statfjord , which extends into the British North Sea sector , was 611,138 bpd against 552,646 bpd in August , operator Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S ( Statoil ) said . Norway 's 22.2 pct share of the Murchison field which , like Statfjord , extends into the British sector , yielded 15, 388 bpd in September , a slight 920 bpd decrease from the previous month , Norwegian partners on the British-operated field said . Statoil boosted output at its Gullfaks field to 109,670 bpd in September , compared with 100, 188 in August . Norsk Hydro , operator of the Oseberg field , said test output at the field from the mobile production ship Petro Jarl totalled 1,719 bpd last month , down sharply from 16,170 bpd in August . Hydro said the drop was caused by failure to bring on stream a second well , cutting September production to just two days . REUTER 
<TEST	20298	acq>
Investment Capital Corp unit sold its entire 14.8 pct stake in Capital Southwest Corp <CSWC.O> common stock , and no longer holds any Capital Southwest shares . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Investment Capital said it sold 280,000 shares of Capital Southwest common stock since September 21 at 19.56 dlrs to 21.50 dlrs a share . No reason was given for the recent sales . Reuter 
<TEST	20311	acq>
Corp said it acquired a five pct stake in Cosmo Communications Corp , and is considering a move to seek control of the company or to secure a role in its affairs . " Bastian Technologies believes that with the appropriate management policies and business strategies , the company can once again become profitable and maximize for all shareholders the underlying value of their company ," Bastian said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission . Bastian said alternatives being considered include an attempt to acquire Cosmo through a merger , tender or exchange offer , seeking to influence the company 's management and policies , and seeking representation on Cosmo 's board of directors through a proxy contest or otherwise . Bastian said it may contact third parties regarding its intentions toward Cosmo , adding it intends to request a meeting with Cosmo representatives to discuss its investment in Cosmo stock . Bastian currently holds 253,700 Cosmo common shares , or five pct of the total outstanding . The shares were purchased from Nasta International Inc <NAS> on October 16 for about 1.15 mln dlrs , Bastia said . Reuter 
<TEST	20321	acq>
Carl C. Icahn has withdrawn his proposal to acquire the TWA shares he does not already own due to the deterioration in market conditions . Under the proposal Icahn would have paid for each TWA share 20 dlrs in cash and 25 dlrs face amount of 12 pct subordinated debentures due 2007 . TWA said Icahn reserves the right to make a subsequent proposal at some future date on the same terms or different terms . Reuter 
<TEST	20328	acq>
completed the acquisition of Vernors Inc from United Brands Co <UB> in a cash and stock transaction worth valued at about 10 mln dlrs Reuter 
<TEST	20333	crude	ship>
Hashemi Rafsanjani on Tuesday called the U.S. Attacks on two of its Gulf oil platforms an escalation and promised retaliation . " God willing , we will carry out our duty in the coming days and make them sorry , " said Rafsanjani in a speech to Parliament later broadcast by Tehran Radio . The Tehran leadership have been quick to threaten vengeance after the U.S. Raids on the rigs , one of which was destroyed . President Ali Khamenei , Prime Minister Mir -Hossein Mousavi and now Rafsanjani within 24 hours of the U.S. Action have all vowed retaliation . Rafsanjani , the parliamentary speaker , said , " It is not a threat or an attempt at intimidation when we say we will respond to aggression it is a reality and we have proved it in practice . " He added that the American attack " squares neither with its superpower image nor its claim of concern with security , nor reason and wisdom . " U.S. Warships shelled an Iranian offshore oil platform and American special forces boarded another , destroying equipment . The U.S. Government said the attack was a measured response to an Iranian missile attack on the American-flagged Kuwaiti tanker Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters last Friday . REUTER 
<TEST	20335	trade>
Lyng said he is pleased the European Community plans to offer a global farm reform plan at GATT later this month , although the United States opposes key parts of the proposal . " We 're pleased that they have moved in tabling a proposal . It will help us in getting the negotiations underway , " Lyng told Reuters in an interview Tuesday . Lyng 's comment came after EC ministers in Luxembourg endorsed a farm reform package drafted by the EC Commission . The EC plan will be presented at the next meeting of Uruguay round agriculture negotiators in Geneva on October 26 . Lyng said the United States would oppose parts of the plan seeking a market sharing agreement for grains , and proposing curbs on U.S. soybean and cereal substitute exports to Europe . The U.S. in July proposed to GATT the elimination of all farm subsidies affecting trade within ten years , and has pressed the EC to make a counter-offer with the aim of reaching a global farm subsidy agreement by the end of 1988 . However , the EC and some U.S. domestic groups have said the Reagan administration plan to end all farm trade subsidies is unrealistic . Asked about such criticism , Lyng said " The alternative to doing that is to say that we preserve them and maintain them . I think that is the unrealistic position . " " I would suggest that they ( EC ) listen to what we are trying to say . " Lyng also rejected suggestions the U.S. and EC agree a freeze in export subsidies to get the GATT negotiations started . " All that some countries would like to have would be a wheat agreement where we would stop export subsidies on wheat . That does n't do a thing for us ," Lyng said . The United States wants an end to subsidies in a range of agricultural products from dairy products to vegetable oils , he said . At the GATT negotiators meeting next week Canada is expected to offer a proposal as well as the EC . The United States will be represented at the meeting by former agriculture undersecretary Daniel Amstutz , recently appointed special U.S. negotiator on agriculture . Reuter 
<TEST	20348	money-fx>
has been in contact with several Finance Ministers from the Group of Seven leading industrial countries , in particular West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg , to discuss the crisis on world markets , Finance Ministry sources said . They did not say whether the contacts had led to concerted action on the markets or merely an exchange of views . But they added that French ministry officials were continuing the contacts to exchange views on market performance . Reuter 
<TEST	20352	acq>
subsidiary of London & Scottish Marine Oil Plc <LSML.L> , is merging with <Onyx Petroleum Exploration Co Ltd> , LASMO said . The merger is to be made by Onyx buying LASMO Exploration , in a share swap . A new company , LASMO Canada Inc , will be formed . LASMO will control 70 pct of the equity , worth some 76 mln Canadian dlrs based on the current Onyx share price . The new company will have proven reserves of 9.5 mln barrels of oil and 20.9 billion cubic feet of gas , LASMO said . Reuter 
<TEST	20366	grain	corn>
this morning that the USSR may have purchased between one and two mln tonnes of U.S. corn , but there was no confirmation . One dealer said he felt some business had been done , but that the amount probably was on the low end of trade estimates . Reuter 
<TEST	20377	money-fx>
said there were good chances for exchange rate stability . " The chances for exchange rate stability are good , " he told reporters . Reuter 
<TEST	20379	acq>
make an offer to acquire all of Pagecorp Inc 's class A and Class B shares for 9.25 dlrs cash per share . The bid is conditional upon an examination by Gordon of the business and affairs of Pagecorp during the 45 days ending December 3 , 1987 . The proposed offer would be condition upon ainimum number of shares being tendered , Gordon said . It did not say what the minimum will be . Meanwhile , Pagecorp said it agreed to grant Gordon an option to purchaser 900,000 class A shares at 9.25 dlrs per share , which is exercisable only if Gordon makes the acquisition bid before December 4 , 1987 or if any third party begins a takeover before December 31 , 1987 . Pagecorp also said all Class B shareholders have agreed to deposit their class B shares , if Gordon proceeds with its offer . Reuter 
<TEST	20396	acq>
sold the stake he held in Gillette Co <GS> after deciding that he could not force Gillette to accept a 47 dlr a share takeover bid made by Revlon Group Inc <REV> . Revlon 's bid expired last week after being repeatedly rejected by Gillette . Jacobs had earlier considered waging a proxy fight over Gillette . Jacobs told Reuters he sold the Gillette stake , which he called " substantial " but under five pct , a few weeks ago over a period of several days . He said he sold the stock at a profit , but did not disclose the selling price . Gillet te 's stock was at 24-1/8 , up 1/8 , in morning trade , off the high of 45-7/8 reached after Revlon announced its bid . Jacobs said he sold his Gillette stake based on an " investment decision . I surely did not see this happening , " he said of Monday 's stock market free-fall . A Gillette spokesman said the mpany had no comment . Jacobs said he and fellow investor Carl Pohlad continue to hold a stake in Allegheny International Inc <AG> . In August they disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that they had acquired 854,900 shares , or 7.9 pct , of Allegheny and would consideer seeking control of the company . Reuter 
<TEST	20398	acq>
Insurance Co said it signed a definitive pact to buy a 51 pct interest in Sedgwick Group PLC 's River Thames Insurance Co. Transamerica will buy 11 mln newly issued Class A shares of River Thames for 2.23 dlrs per share . Sedgwick wil retain a 49 pct interest in River Thames , which is a property liability reinsurer . The agreement , subject to shareholder approval , is expected to close by the end of the year , the company said . In 1986 , River Thames reported net premiums written of 36 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	20409	interest>
former chief of staff , said the government should loosen the money supply , try to keep interest rates down and try to reduce the federal budget and trade deficits to avoid a recession . " I think what we have to face now is trying to preserve our economy ," the one-time chairman of Merrill Lynch and Co Inc <MER> said in an interview on the ABC television network . " We 've got to loosen money , we 've got to keep interest rates down . We ca n't afford to let them go up . That means we 're going to have to work on our twin deficits , both the budget deficit and the trade deficit , " Regan said . " I certainly would n't tighten money at this particular moment , " Regan said when asked about the prospects for a recession following Monday 's price drop on Wall Street . " I think that if they were to do that , they 'd create the same conditions that we did in '29 ...They choked off the money supply and what happened ? We went into a major recession . I think that 's the one thing we 've got to avoid right now . " Regan also called on the government to impose restrictions on program trading . " I think that that 's exacerbated , exaggerated this decline , and I think it 's something that they must stop , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	20420	crude>
the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel , effective Oct 16 . The increase brings the company 's postings for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00 dlrs a barrel . Phillips last changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9 . Reuter 
<TEST	20439	acq>
Farren opposed language in the trade bill before Congress to limit foreign takeovers of U.S. companies . " Anything that would serve to have a chilling effect on foreign investment is going to cost us jobs and economic growth ," Farren said before a congressional coi ttee . House and Senate negotiators are ironing out differences in trade bills passed by both chambers . Once the negotiators reach agreement , the bill will be sent to President Reagan for his signature . Reuter 
<TEST	20441	trade>
said the ruling of a GATT panel on a U.S. trade complaint against Japan , expected soon , may influence the U.S. stance in negotiations with Tokyo on beef and citrus import quotas . The ruling of a GATT tribunal on a U.S. demand that Japan end quotas on 12 categories of food items is expected by the end of the year . Lyng said he is optimistic the ruling will favor the U.S. " These are quota items , and the principles that apply to them , it seems to me , will have some bearing on the question of whether you would have quotas or not on beef and citrus , " Lyng told Reuters in an interview . He repeated the U.S. demand that Japan lift the quotas on beef and citrus after March 31 , next year . The Japanese quotas on 12 food categories which the United States has challenged include items such as tomato paste , some cheeses and specialty fruit juices . U.S. officials had hoped a ruling against the quotas would be issued earlier this year but the GATT panel decision has been delayed by the illness of the tribunal 's chairman . The U.S. has taken a hardline stance on the beef and citrus quotas , which Tokyo says must remain in place to protect Japanese farmers . " We will not negotiate new quotas or accept new quotas ( on beef and citrus ) . If they impose them we would consider that an illegal action in the GATT , Lyng said . He declined to say what action the U.S. would take next April if Japan continues to resist U.S. demands . Reuter 
<TEST	20457	acq>
Kong-based Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) Ltd said it increased its stake in Smith International Inc common stock to 3,997,100 shares , or 17.5 pct of the total outstanding , from about 14.9 pct . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group said it bought 586,500 Smith common shares between October 9 and 19 at 7.86 dlrs to 9.57 dlrs a share . No reason was given for the recent purchases . Reuter 
<TEST	20459	crude>
provisionally agreed to hold talks on a possible exchange of Iranian crude oil for finished Soviet oil products , an official spokesman said Tuesday . Gennady Gerasimov , chief of the Soviet Foreign Ministry 's Information Directorate , told reporters the agreement had been reached during a visit to Moscow last week by Iran 's Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh . Gerasimov said no date had been set for the talks , which would also study the possibility of Soviet technical assistance for Iran 's oil industry . REUTER 
<TEST	20461	trade>
denounced European Community ( EC ) oilseed policies as illegal under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade , and threatened to make an unfair trade complaint if the EC does not remedy the situation . ASA Vice President James Adams told an ASA-sponsored Outlook 87 conference " It will be filed unless the EC takes drastic and immediate steps . " " These subsidies are blatantly unfair and are GATT illegal , since they were established after the zero soybean duty was established in 1962 , " he said . The ASA 's unfair trade petition against the EC would ask for an investigation and modification of EC oilseed policies to make the regime non-discriminatory . The EC in 1962 ruled all EC oilseed imports duty-free , in an effort to fill its oilseed needs . But EC oilseeds production has risen dramatically since then . The EC now guarantees oilseed prices to farmers above world market levels and is considering implementing a controversial oils and fats tax . The subsidies " are obvious attempts to circumvent the zero duty binding and that makes U.S. Farmers mad as hell , " Adams said . The ASA is confident the U.S. Congress will support its trade complaint , Adams said . The ASA also strongly opposes an EC proposal to tax vegetable and marine oils consumed in the EC , which will be considered by the EC Commission in December . U.S. Soybean world market share has declined 35 pct in volume and 40 pct in value since 1982 , primarily as a result of EC policies , Adams added . Lord Plumb , European Parliament President and a speaker at the conference , said the EC expanded oilseed production in 1973 when the U.S. Halted overseas sales of soy products . Reuter 
<TEST	20462	trade>
all the stops " to defend its agricultural trade rights under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) , U.S. Ambassador to GATT Michael Samuels said . Those rights are now being challenged by the European Community 's ( EC ) agricultural support policies , he told a conference sponsored by the American Soybean Association . He reiterated Washington 's firm intention to retaliate if the EC goes ahead and bans imports of hormone-fed beef without the issue being investigated by a GATT special committee . The U.S. claims the EC directive , due to come into effect on January 1 , threatens to cut 100 mln dlrs worth of U.S. meat shipments into the EC . The U.S. also will oppose all EC efforts to impair U.S. trade via the EC oilseeds regime , which supports EC oilseed prices over the current market level and which may be extended to include a hotly disputed oils and fats tax , Samuels said . Reduction of trade-distorting world agricultural subsidies , an aim of most key participants in GATT multilateral trade negotiations , " is meaningless if import barriers continue to be erected , " Samuels said . Samuels called the U.S. plan to eliminate world farm subsidies by the year 2000 , proposed at GATT in July , " visionary " and " very serious . " The EC and Japan have said it is unrealistic . The EC Commission this month announced its draft proposal on farm trade reform , expected to be tabled at GATT formally next week . The EC scheme involves emergency measures to reduce tensions in troubled surplus sectors of cereals and cereals substitutes , dairy and sugar . It also calls for reduction of farm subsidies . The U.S. Is not opposed to short-term measures , as long as they are directly linked to long-term commitments to end major trade distortions , Samuels said . Washington will review the EC proposal when it is formally submitted and respond to it officially then . " We will consider its relation to the Punta del Este declaration to correct trade problems and expand market access , " the U.S. Ambassador said . The U.S. can say no to the EC proposal if the EC ignores the U.S. plan when it tables its own proposal , he added . The key difference between the two approaches is that the U.S. wants farm subsidies eliminated , while the EC is pushing only for a reduction in farm suppports , Samuels said . If the EC farm budget were protected by a subsidy freeze , there would be little incentive for the Community to work to correct the international trade situation , he added . Samuels cited the animal hormones complaint , the EC oilseeds regime and an EC regulation concerning meat imports to third countries as three crucial barriers to trade which the U.S. wants to see resolved under the auspices of GATT . Reuter 
<TEST	20464	ship	crude>
that it was ready to retaliate for any further hostile military action in the Gulf as U.S. warships began escorting another tanker convoy southward from Kuwait . U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said the U.S. sought no further Gulf hostitilies but was ready to deal with any Iranian response to Monday 's attack on an Iranian oil rig . Several hours later , the Pentagon announced that U.S. warships had begun escorting two U.S. flag Kuwaiti tankers the 80,000 ton product carrier Ocean City and 46,000 ton liquified petroleum tanker Gas King southward from Kuwait . The Defense Department said the 12th such convoy of U.S. flagged Kuwaiti tankers through the Gulf began at 0230 EDT under the escort by the U.S. guided missile frigate Ford . It did not say what oth U.S. warships were in the area . " It ( the convoy ) is now progressing uneventfully in the central Gulf , " the Pentagon statement said . Asked on NBC 's " Today " program if the United States was prepared for a major war with Iran , Weinberger said , " Well we are prepared I think for whatever eventualities emerge from this situation but we do n't look on it as a war . " REUTER 
<TEST	20467	acq>
completed the sale of subsidiaries <Martin CTN Group Plc > and <Drummonds Pharmacy Group Plc> . Total consideration was 232.6 mln stg , subject to adjustment on final audit , which is expected to add 12 mln stg , Guinness said . Martins has been sold to <Panfida Ltd> an Australian investment company , and Drummonds to <Macarthy Plc> . Reuter 
<TEST	20469	trade>
Lyng said the United States will continue its policy of subsidizing farm exports to regain lost markets until there is a global agreement to end such subsidies . In an interview with Reuters , Lyng also acknowledged he was troubled by the prospect that the export enhancement program ( EEP ) could prove so indispensable to boosting U.S. exports that the U.S. would have difficulty abandoning it . " Yes , I 'm troubled with that a little bit , " he said . " There 's no question about it , the longer you feed the calf on the cow , the longer it is to wean it . " In recent months , USDA has offered subsidies on a growing list of commodities to an increasing number of countries . Lyng called U.S. and European Community export subsidies " just plain nonsensical as a long-term policy " and said he saw an end to the expansion of the EEP. " I 'm sure there 's an end to the expansion , but we are doing this to accomplish our goal which is to regain the markets that we 've lost , to keep our products competitive and to let those , particularly the European Community , who , we are convinced , are the worst offenders in terms of the export subsidization , that we are prepared to continue to do this until we can come to some agreement to put an end to it , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	20474	crude>
has been set at 625 mln tonnes , a rise of eight mln tonnes over this year 's planned output . Oil Minister Vasily Dinkov announced the figure on Tuesday at the Supreme Soviet , the country 's nominal parliament . He said a new development strategy , fuller use of oil deposits and better housing and pay for oilmen had allowed an upsurge in the oil industry after three years of stagnation which began in late 1983 . Last year the Soviet Union produced 615 mln tonnes of oil , slightly short of the target of 616.7 mln . January-September figures released at the weekend showed Soviet oil output in the first nine months of this year at 467 mln tonnes . The 1987 target is 617 million . Dinkov said the Soviet Union would develop 38 new oil deposits in the coming year . He called for speedier geolog prospecting across the country to spur the oil industry . The Supreme Soviet convened on Monday to endorse the 1988 budget and plan . The session is expected to end on Tuesday . REUTER 
<TEST	20485	acq>
it would sell its office machinery unit , with a turnover of two billion crowns , to Norway 's <Norska Design Funktion A/S> . Ericsson Information Systems , of which the unit is a part , said in a statement a decision would be reached in November about when the Norwegian firm would take over the operation . No price was given for the deal . EIS managing director Stig Larsson said the deal would allow EIS to concentrate on voice and data communication products . REUTER 
<TEST	20489	acq>
said in a statement that it had acquired 31 mln ordinary shares in Ranks Hovis McDougall Plc <RHML.L> ( RHM ) , bringing its stake in the company to 29.9 pct or 101 mln ordinary shares . Goodman said it has no intention of making a full bid for the company and would not contemplate doing so over the next six months in the absence of a material change in the circumstances of Ranks . RHM said it regards the stake build-up as a hostile move which is unwelcome and not in the long term interest of shareholders . Reuter 
<TEST	20496	money-fx>
Lawson said the recent dispute between the United States and West Germany over economic policy was responsible for much financial turmoil and that it should never have happened . He said in a television interview the dispute had fanned fears of a breakdown in the cooperation which is so important between finance ministers of the major nations . He said the dispute was a row which should not have happened and agreed that much of the blame lay with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker who had publicly criticised West Germany for having raised its key interest rates . REUTER 
<TEST	20500	money-fx	interest>
transatlantic battle by forcing the Bundesbank to trim interest rates , European economists said . But they added Washington set the stakes high by testing the limits of the Louvre accord while global stock markets were plunging . West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker reaffirmed their commitment to currency stability at a secret meeting yesterday in Frankfurt , according to official statements released late Monday . Only 13 hours after the statements were released , the Bundesbank reduced short-term interest rates by offering banks liquidity at a fixed bid rate of 3.80 pct , down from a 3.85 pct facility rate offered last week . While the two ministers were meeting with Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl , the central bank had also added money market liquidity repeatedly , signalling it did not want a strong rise in the tender allocation rate on Tuesday . " It 's round one to the Americans , " said Richard Reid , senior European economist for brokers UBS/Philips and Drew in London . But Reid added , " We should n't forget that it has taken one of the biggest stock market crashes in decades to get the West Germans to cut their security repurchase rate by a 0.05 percentage point . " Over the weekend , criticism by Baker of earlier tightening of West German monetary policy led to a sharp dollar fall and fuelled speculation that the Louvre accord was no longer valid . Six leading industrial nations agreed under February 's Louvre Accord to stabilise currencies and coordinate monetary policies . It has since been reaffirmed by the Group of Seven the US , Japan , West Germany , Britain , France , Italy and Canada . The Frankfurt meeting on Monday soothed currency markets and the dollar gained over two pfennigs in after hours trading in New York . At the Frankfurt fixing on Tuesday , the dollar was quoted at 1.7918 marks compared with 1.7740 on Monday . Guenther Aschoff , chief economist at Deutsche Genossenschaftbank in Frankfurt said massive declines on world stock markets had been the main reason for the fall in West German short-term interest rates on Tuesday . " The Bundesbank wanted to set a marker after stock market losse s That was the responsible thing to do and if it fits with Baker 's wishes , then all the better , " he said . No central bank wants to let interest rates rise , and the Bundesbank had been forced to put its rates up following rises in the U.S. , Aschoff said . Poehl told a conference in Frankfurt on Tuesday the central bank has no interest in higher capital market rates and he thought the global rate increase was a cause for concern . Giles Keating , economist with Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd in London said " The cautious Bundesbank has beaten a retreat and Baker has won a battle ...But he has n't won the war as the security repurchase rate is still 20 points higher than it was before the IMF meeting last month in Washington . " Before the IMF meeting , when the Louvre Accord was reaffirmed , the Bundesbank was offering money market liquidity at 3.60 pct , Keating noted . Economists said the United States now appeared to have agreed to play by the rules of the Louvre Accord and support the dollar in return for the German action on interest rates . Any further sharp decline of the dollar would hinder Washington 's efforts to reduce its trade deficit , Stoltenberg told a news conference on Tuesday . He added he would not rule out central banks of leading industrial countries intervening on exchange markets to defend the dollar 's value . Deutsche Genossenschaftbank 's Aschoff stressed West Germany 's heavy dependence on exports and the need for currency stability . In addition , both the U.S. And West German central banks were keen to avoid a dollar slide which would force them to again spend vast sums intervening to support the dollar . REUTER 
<TEST	20511	trade	grain	wheat>
trade deal with Argentina designed to compensate the country following the entry of Spain and Portugal into the group , EC officials said . Under the deal agreed by EC foreign ministers , Argentina will gain additional trading rights on a series of products including meat , fish and cereals by-products . But ministers failed to agree on new trade deals with Canada and Japan and are due to study these again , the officials said . The deal with Argentina was agreed by a majority of EC states after West Germany withdrew objections to increased quotas for Argentina on high-quality beef . Ireland and France continued to oppose the deal on meat , saying that the main dispute was over sales of cereals substitutes , but they were outvoted by the other states , the officials said . Under the deal , Argentina will benefit from improved quotas on exports of beef to the EC . In particular the quota on high-quality Hilton beef will be raised by 4,500 tonnes to 34,300 tonnes and quotas on frozen boneless beef will be increased by 3,000 tonnes to 53,000 tonnes . Argentina will also benefit from an additional quota of 5,000 tonnes of frozen hake fillets at 10 pct duty and reduced levies on 550,000 tonnes of wheat bran , the officials said . The improved trade terms were offered after Argentina said that Spain and Portugal 's entry into the EC affected their exports of cereals substitutes to these two countries . They have been negotiated under the rules of GATT ( General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ) . But officials said ministers had been unable to resolve Canadian claims that its sales of certain fish to Spain had been affected by the country 's EC membership . Officials said the EC had asked GATT to arbitrate on the fish dispute with Canada . Ministers also decided to continue talks with Japan . The EC claims that Spain and Portugal 's entry into the group has improved trade conditions for Japan but has been unsatisfied with Japanese offers of compensation . Japan 's main offers were to improve inspection systems on citrus fruits to aid EC exports , to improve tariffs for some other farm produce , to increase tariffs for leather footwear and to offer better trade terms for Spain and Portugal . EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq told journalists " We maintain our position that the ( Japanese ) concessions were not enough . " " We hope that there will be an improvement , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	20525	acq>
a substnatial majority of AMBAC S.p.A. 's outstanding stock from <AIL Corp> , the successor to United Technologies Corp 's <UTX> Diesel Systems Division for undisclosed terms . In addition to purchase a majority of the Brescia , Italy , based company , Stanadyne said , it acquired a minority interest in AMBAC 's U.S. operation headquartered in Columbia , S.C . Reuter 
<TEST	20532	interest>
Lawson said the collapse of British share prices this week held no implication so far for domestic interest rates . He said in a television interview that "there is nothing in the events of the past few days to increase the upward pressure on ( U. K. ) interest rates . " Sterling has so far stayed solid during the crisis , backed by strong economic fundamentals and by 10 pct bank base lending rates , analysts said . Lawson 's comments followed another frantic day in London 's financial center , where British shares closed 12.2 pct down on the day . Reuter 
<TEST	20550	grain	wheat>
set new support prices for grains and oilseeds , an official statement said . It said the support price for wheat was hiked to 300 Australs per tonne from 250 previously and for sunflowerseed from northwestern Argentina to 450 Australs from 360 previously . It said the price went into effect Monday . The secretariat said the support price of sorghum was increased to 210 Australs per tonne from 200 Australs previously and for maize to 250 Australs from 220 Australs previously . Reuter 
<TEST	20584	acq>
<Dunhill Compact Classics Inc> for an unspecified amount of stock . The surviving company will be controlled by Dunhill 's principals , Total Capital said . Dunhill makes compact discs . Reuter 
<TEST	20611	grain	wheat>
office is preparing a wheat catalogue containing roughly 300 mln bushels , scheduled to be released in the next two to three weeks , a CCC spokesman said . The catalogue should include all CCC stocks stored at terminals and about 50 pct of the stocks stored at country elevators , the spokesman said . Hard red winter wheat should comprise the bulk of the stocks , followed by spring wheat , he said . The release date is tentative in case there are snags in the catalogue 's preparation , the spokesman said . Reuter 
<TEST	20618	acq>
subsidiary 's 60 dlr a share cash tender offer for all the outstanding common shares of Brockway Inc has been extended to midnight October 30 . The offer had been scheduled to expire at midnight October 21 . Owens-Illinois said that as of Oct 19 , 1,598,789 common shares , or about 13 pct of the outstanding shares of Brockway have been tendered . It said it and Brockway are preparing responses to the previously announced request for additional information from the Federal Trade Commission under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act . The Owens-Illinois subsidiary , which began the tender offer on September 23 , will not be able to buy Brock way 's common shares until 10 days following Owens-Illinois compliance with the FTC request or other conditions . Reuter 
<TEST	20624	ship>
involving U.S. forces in the Gulf , the U.S. Senate voted to end Republican stalling tactics and limit debate on a measure that could give Congress a larger role in Gulf policy . The measure , however , does not require President Reagan to comply with the 1973 War Powers Act as does a related Senate bill . The controversial War Powers Act could require a pullout of U.S. forces from the Gulf . The Senate voted 67-28 to stop a filibuster and limit debate to 30 hours on a bipartisan measure that requires Reagan to report to Congress on Gulf policy within 60 days and calls for a resolution to be passed in the House and Senate on the situation in the volatile waterway 30 days later . The resolution could be about any Gulf-related issue , including an expression of support or of disapproval for Reagan 's policy of protecting 11 Kuwaiti tankers from Iran in the waterway . The Pentagon said the 12th U.S.-protected convoy began moving through the Gulf early Tuesday . Reuter 
<TEST	20631	interest	money-fx>
was surprised by recent criticism of West German economic policies voiced by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker but added that the criticism was not purely one-sided . Stoltenberg told the West German Trade and Industry Association ( DIHT ) that before a meeting with Baker on Monday , " There had been surprising notes of criticism ( from the United States ) . " He added . " Criticism is not a one-way street . " He did not elaborate , but Bonn has often called on the U.S. To reduce its federal budget deficit . Over the weekend Baker had criticised West German economic policies , saying that rises in domestic interest rates here were not in the spirit of last February 's Louvre pact to stabilise currencies . Stoltenberg told the DIHT that his meeting on Monday with Baker had resolved differences between the two countries . At a news conference earlier on Tuesday Stoltenberg had declined to comment specifically on Baker 's criticisms , but he had said that after three hours of discussions on Monday , " one remark or another has been clarified . " Reuter 
<TEST	20632	crude>
Iran 's Silkworm missiles as a target in the retaliatory attack mounted on Monday for fear of being drawn more deeply into the Iran-Iraq war , defense and Middle East experts said . U.S. naval forces destroyed an offshore oil platform and raided another in what the administration called a " measured and appropriate response " to an Iranian Silkworm missile attack last Friday on a U.S.-flagged tanker in Kuwaiti waters . Private analysts generally agreed that going after the rig rather than an onshore economic or military target such as Silkworm launch sites reflected a careful bid by Washington to limit the political , military and diplomatic fallout both at home and in the Gulf . " It simply demonstrated the United States will take military action when they ( Iran ) take military action , " Norman Polmar , a defense analyst and author , said . He said hitting the platforms had spared Iran the embarrassment of casualties on its own soil , possibly avoiding an escalating spiral of attack and counterattack . In addition , it minimized the risk to U.S. forces and the potential embarrassment of any losses , including aircraft that could have been shot down had they taken part in an attack . Anthony Cordesman , author of a new book on the Iran-Iraq war , said the United States apparently chose a limited target to keep alive the possibility that U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar might still persuade Iran to accept a Security Council call for a ceasefire . " We want the U.N. peace initiative to work if there 's any chance at all ," he said , adding that the action made it clear tougher steps would follow if Iran to attack Gulf shipping . In targeting an oil rig albeit one said by the Pentagon to have been turned into a military command post Washington also sent a message that it might be willing to attack Iran 's economic lifeline . Pentagon officials said the platform had been used as a base for Iranian raids against shipping in the lower Gulf . " We have chosen a military target , but we also have shown Iran that we are willing to interfere with its oil-exporting capabilities , " Cordesman said . He predicted the United States would respond to any future major Iranian challenges by hitting Iran 's naval base at Bandar Abbas on the Straits of Hormuz , followed by mining the approaches to Iran 's oil export terminal on Kharg Island . Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Monday the United States did not seek further confrontation with Iran , " but we will be prepared to meet any escalation of military action by Iran with stronger countermeasures . " Reuter 
<TEST	20641	acq>
<Food Handling Systems Inc> of Dallas , a producer of commercial ovens , conveyers and proofer systems . Terms of the transaction were not disclosed . Food Handling , which also produces equipment for the commercial baking industry , was privately owned by Richard Shumway of Mesa , Ariz. , and Vic Ferrara of Dallas , both of whom will remain with the company . The company has manufacturing facilities in Dallas and Phoenix. Reuter 
<TEST	20645	grain	corn	wheat>
125,000 tonnes of U.S. corn to the Soviet Union for delivery during the 1987/88 season and under the fifth year of the Long Term Grain Supply A greement . The department noted the sales are the first reported for delivery during the fifth year of the Agreement , which began October 1 , 1987 . Sales of wheat and corn to the USSR for delivery during the fourth year of the agreement totaled 8,182,500 tonnes 4,0 80,500 tonnes of wheat and 4,102,300 tonnes of corn . In addition , sales of soybeans totaled 68,200 tonnes , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	20649	trade	grain	corn>
speaking at a meeting of EC farm ministers , called for action to help the Spanish maize market , Spanish diplomatic sources said . Spain is threatened with massive imports from third countries by the end of the year , they said . They said the imports are due to come in as a result of the accord by which the EC has promised the United States it will import two mln tonnes of maize and 300,000 tonnes of sorghum into Spain from third countries this year . Around a sixth of this tonnage has so far come in under a reduced levy system and the EC cereals management committee may decide this week to authorise the Spanish intervention board to make direct purchases . The sources said Romero urged that other EC countries should take some of the imports to prevent disturbance of the Spanish market . They said he threatened to withhold support for the EC Commission plan for new limits on farm output which if breached would mean price cuts unless Spain received some help . The sources said no direct reply was given to Romero at the meeting . Reuter 
<TEST	20653	crude>
lease sale number 97 in the Beaufort Sea , tentatively schedualed for January 1988 has been postponed , the U.S. Department of Interior said . Alan Powers , chief of the Minerals Maanagement Service for the department , said the delay is to have more time to study the effects of drilling noise on whale migrations . Powers said the state has asked for additional noise data for the sale area off Alaska 's North Slope . A new date has not been set , but it will likely be no sooner than next March , Powers said . Some 3,930 blocks encompassing about 21 mln acres are involved in the proposed sale . The area is between three and 160 miles off the northern coast of Alaska in the Artic Ocean between the Canadian border and 162 degrees west longitude . Reuter 
<TEST	20662	crude>
Corporation ( CEPE ) has named Jaime Sanchez Valdivieso as its new general manager replacing Carlos Romo Leroux , a CEPE spokesman said . The spokesman told Reuters Sanchez is a 46-year-old civil engineer who formerly headed CEP E 's administration and finances division . Romo Leroux resigned last week for " personal and family " reasons , the spokesman said . Reuter 
<TEST	20667	acq>
previously reported , that Bear Stearns and Co <BSC> has purchased <W . Damm , M. Frank and Co> , a specialist unit on the Amex trading floor . Amex said the unit , which trades stocks and options is small in comparison to other specialist units . The personel and operations remain the same , the exchange added . The price was not disclosed . A specialist unit is authorized by a stock exchange to deal as an agent for other brokers to keep a stable market in one or more particular stocks . Reuter 
<TEST	20678	money-fx	interest>
Administration to take steps to reduce volatility in the financial markets , including suspending program trading and limiting daily trading on stock index futures . Heinz said margin requirements for index futures , now six pct , should be the same as for common stock and equities . He urged creation of a task force to be headed by former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker to coordinate international credit and montary policies among major nations and stabilize interest rates at the lowest possible levels . Reuter 
<TEST	20679	acq>
talks concerning a proposed leveraged buy-out of the company have been terminated . A spokesman said the group led by Joseph F. Grimes II , a director of the company , and B. Rober Kill has withdrawn their proposal to acquire the company 's stock for 23.50 dlrs a share . The company also said its board determined the previously postponed annual meeting will be held on January five . Reuter 
<TEST	20682	trade>
dlrs in the first eight months of 1987 , compared with a surplus of 468.6 mln dlrs in the same period of 1986 , central bank figures show . Ecuador suspended oil exports , which made up 55 pct of the value of its total exports in 1986 , for five months this year after an earthquake in March shattered the country 's pipeline . The central bank said the value of exports from January to August 1987 stood at 1.132 billion dlrs and imports 1.204 billion dlrs . Net international monetary reserves declined to 57.5 mln dlrs at end-September from 146.8 mln dlrs at end September 1986 . Reuter 
<TEST	20693	acq>
agreed to buy Pan Am Corp 's 50 pct holding in their joint venture company , Pan Am Pacific Satellite Corp , for undisclosed terms . Johnson Geneva said Pan Am divested owership in the project as part of a corporate restructuring plan , but will continue to provide engineering services on a contract basis . Johnson Geneva said the buy out was accomplished through <O npraise Ltd> , a Hong Kong company controlled by Johnson Geneva Chairman Michael Johnson . Funds have been provided by Onpraise to increase the satellite company 's working capita . Reuter 
<TEST	20698	acq>
shareholder rights plan which will allow shareholders to purchase one common share for two dlrs if a hostile group acquires 15 pct or more of the company . However , the company said the plan will not be triggered by purchases pursuant to the 65 dlrs a share tender offer commenced on October 9 by a unit of TLX Partners , a group controlled by New York financier Asher Edelman . It said the rights will be distributed on a one for one basis to all shareholders as of October 30 and may be redeemed before they become exercisable at five cents per right . The company said the rights will expire on the later of February 17 next year or 60 days from the date they become exercis able . It said the plan was intended to protect stockholders against any attempt to take unfair advantage of the recent decline in stock prices or to use abusive tactics such as market accumulations which would interfere with its ability to maximize stockholder value . The rights become exercisable if any person or group acquires 15 pct or more of the company 's common stock other than through an all cash tender offer for all outstanding shares at 65 dlrs per share . It said the rights will also not become exercisable if the company is acquired by a group under an agreement made with its board . A spokeswoman told Reuters the company would have an official response to Edelman 's bid by Friday , Oct 23 . Reuter 
<TEST	20709	crude>
price it will pay for most grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel , effective today . The company said the increase brings its posting for West Texas Intermediate to 19.00 dlrs a barrel . West Texas Sour , at 34 degrees API , was raised to 18.10 dlrs . The Light Louisiana Sweet grade was also increased 50 cts to 19.35 dlrs a barrel . Amoco said Wyoming Southwest Sweet , Colorado Western , and two Utah grades of oil , Black wax and yellow wax , were unchanged . The company last changed its crude oil postings on September 28 . Reuter 
<TEST	20719	ship>
bin Abdul Aziz was thanked by the Reagan administration for his country 's close , and closed-mouthed , cooperation with Washington in the Gulf , a senior U.S. official said . " The Saudis are being very cooperative . It would be nice if the Saudis would go more public , but it 's their real estate , " said the official who asked not to be named . He declined to describe what sort of help the Saudis were providing , saying that Saudi officials are reluctant to acknowledge their role in the Gulf where the United States has stationed forces to protect shipping lanes . The prince met Vice President George Bush on Monday after U.S. naval forces attacked offshore Iranian oil platforms in what Washington said was retaliation for an Iranian attack on a ship moored off Kuwait and flying the U.S. flag . Asked at the start of the meeting how he felt about the attack , the prince , who is here on an official visit , replied , " I believe what the United States has done is their responsibility as a superpower . " The senior U.S. official said his remark was an endorsement of the U.S. attack . Reuter 
<TEST	20721	crude>
price it will pay for most grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel , effective October 16 . The company said the increase brings its posting for the U.S. benchmark grade , West Texas Intermediate , to 19.00 dlrs a barrel . The West Texas Sour and Light Louisiana Sweet grades were also raised 50 cts to 18.10 and 19.35 dlrs a barrel , respectively . Texaco last changed its crude oil postings on September 15 . Reuter 
<TEST	20723	grain	corn>
approximately 26,000 tonnes soybean meal , valued at up to 5.6 mln dlrs , and about 24,500 tonnes bulk corn , with a value of 2.0 mln dlrs , under PL-480 financing , an agent for the country said . It said the country is seeking soymeal with 48 pct protein minimum , 12 pct moisture maximum , and 3.5 pct maximum crude fiber for delivery from November 15-30 . The U.S. no . 2 or better yellow corn , with 14.5 pct moisture maximum , is for delivery from November 8-25 . Offers on the soymeal and corn are due at 1530 hrs EDT ( 1930 gm t ) Oct 26 , and will remain valid until 1000 hrs EDT the next day , the agent said . Reuter 
<TEST	20725	acq>
Chase Manhattan Corp <CMB> , said it acquired a portfolio of about 190,000 consumer revolving credit accounts from Atlantic Financial Federal <ATLF.O> valued at 370 mln dlrs . The company said the acquisition makes Chase the second largest issuer of credit card and other unsecured consumer credit loans . Outstandings now exceed 5.6 billion dlrs , the company said . The company said the portfolio , accessed by checks , is similar to Chase's Advantage Credit product . Reuter 
<TEST	20734	acq>
certain directors and officers , who currently represent about 85 pct of the company 's stock , plan to take Reser 's private through a cash buyout . The company said the group plans to offer 12.50 dlrs per share for the 15 pct of its stock currently outstanding . Reuter 
<TEST	20738	grain	wheat>
225,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat at 94.00 dlrs per tonne , c and f , the balance of its original tender under the export bonus program , U.S. exporters said . Algeria bought 75,000 tonnes for November and early December shipmet at that bid , but USDA rejected the bid on wheat for later shipments , the sources said . Reuter 
<TEST	20744	acq>
reaffirmed the terms of its offer for Irving Bank Corp despite the drop in the Bank of New York 's share price to 30-1/8 , a Bank of New York spokesman said . " The offer still stands , we have not changed our offer , " a Bank of New York spokesman said . Irving would not comment on how the drop in the market affects its position on the bid or whether it would buy back any of its own shares . Earlier this month , Irving rejected the bid as inadequate and said it wanted to retain its independence . In late September , Bank of New York offered 80 dlrs per share in cash for 47.4 pct of Irving . For the remaining 52.6 pct , it offered an exchange of 1.9 shares of its shares for one Irving share . At that time , the stock purchase portion was worth close to 80 dlrs per share , but now that portion is worth 53 dlrs per share for a net price of 68 dlrs , one analyst said . According to the prospectus offer , shareholders may tender for all cash or all shares on a first come , first serve basis . Analysts were mixed about how the stock price drop would affect the acquisition . " If it gets to the Irving shareholders , they would approve it , but Irving hopes the offer wo n't go to the shareholders , " said Mark Alpert , banking analyst with Bear Stearns Cos Inc. " And the market is saying the deal wo n't go through , " Alpert said . " The transaction looks highly unlikely to be completed at present . If Irving would n't go with the offer at 80 dlrs a share , then they wo n't go at a lower price , " another analyst said . The analyst also doubted that Bank of New York could afford to retain its original offer . However , industry sources were more uncertain about prospects for the deal . " With Irving 's price so low , Bank of New York 's offer will look good to Irving shareholders , " said Michael Flores , a consultant at Bank Earnings International , a consulting firm . The drop of Irving 's share to 44 dlrs per share , which is about a 26 dlr drop from the beginning of last week , increases the chance that Bank of New York will succeed , Flores said . Analysts said that the drop in bank stock prices is likely to depress the level of mergers and acquisition in the banking industry . " Bank takeovers are less likely because banks ca n't use their own stock to make acquisitions because their share price is too depressed , " Alpert said . Since only banks can buy another bank , the only other possible acquirors would be a foreign bank , Alpert said . " In the market drop the stock of acquirors got clobbered more than the acquirees , " another analyst said . Reuter 
<TEST	20756	crude	ship>
diplomatic missions overseas are on high alert for possible retaliation from Iran for Monday 's attack on two Iranian oil platforms by American forces in the Gulf . At the same time , the Pentagon announced on Tuesday that U.S. forces have begun escorting another Kuwaiti tanker convoy southward through the Gulf from Kuwait . The State Department renewed its warning to Americans not to travel to Iran because of what spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley called , " its virulent anti-American policies and support for terrorism . " " The threat to Americans has increased significantly , " she said in announcing that the department was reiterating advice it last made in January . The department said about 2,600 American citizens live in Iran , the overwhelming majority dual nationalities . Oakley said no specific warning has been issued to U.S. diplomats and Americans living abroad in the aftermath of the U.S. attack on the oil drilling plat forms , but " many of our missions are on a high state of alert . " Reuter 
<TEST	20757	trade>
was the best so far this year , totalling 1.494 billion dlrs , compared with 1.434 billion dlrs in August and 540 mln dlrs in September last year , Banco do Brasil 's Foreign Trade Department ( Cacex ) director Namir Salek said in a news conference . September exports were 2.694 billion dlrs , slightly down from 2.76 billion dlrs in August . Imports in September amounted to 1.2 billion dlrs , against 1.32 billion dlrs in August . Salek said the accumulated surplus in the Jan-Sept period was 7.857 billion dlrs , compared with 8.667 billion dlrs in a similar 1986 period . Coffee accounted with 320 mln dlrs of exports , up from 222 mln dlrs in August and 212 mln in September 1986 , Salek said . The Cacex director said he expected the country 's trade surplus to average 800 mln dlrs in the remaining three months of the year , estimating the year 's overall surplus to reach 10.2 billion dlrs , from 25.6 billion dlrs worth of exports and 15.4 billion dlrs of imports . He attributed the good surplus on exports of manufactured and semimanufactured goods . He mentioned car exports , which accounted alone with sales of 617 mln dlrs in the Jan-Sept period , against 194 mln dlrs in a similar 1986 period . Reuter 
<TEST	20763	grain	corn>
countervailing duty on U.S. corn imports should be cut to 30 Canadian cts a bushel from 1.10 dlrs a bushel . In a report to the Canadian finance department , the tribunal said the duty is hurting Canadian farmers and food processors . The duty was imposed last year after the revenue department found U.S. corn production was subsidized . It is now up to the government to decide whether to change the duty . Reuter 
<TEST	20764	money-fx	interest>
restore investor confidence after Monday 's Wall Street collapse , Treasury Secretary James Baker came under fire from critics who claimed he helped to precipitate the crisis . Baker 's weekend blast at the West German Bundesbank for boosting interest rates seemed to signal an unraveling of an international accord to stabilize currency values . Nigel Lawson , British Chancellor of the Exchequer , was among those who said the treasury secretary 's statements helped spur a wave of stock sales by making already jittery investors think that a clash between the two major economic powers would damage the world economy . Lawson told a London television interviewer Tuesday , " I think the scale of the ( stock ) fall was very great . That , I think , was partly due to statements that have been made by senior figures on the other side of the Atlantic . " It was a dispute that should never have happened , he added . Although Baker appeared to patch over the rift at a hastily-called meeting with West German officials Monday , he still faced a storm of criticism on his return to the United States on Tuesday . Baker cut short a long-planned trip to Scandinavia to return here to deal with the economic crisis . Said one U.S. analyst of Baker 's weekend remarks , "His timing could not have been worse . " One government bond salesman in New York said , " He actually thought that yelling at the Germans , and threatening to smack the dollar down would work . That does n't show much understanding of international monetary gamesmanship . " However , some analysts said West Germany 's stubborn march toward higher interest rates may have forced Baker 's hand . "On the surface Baker may look responsible for this , but if you go back to see what caused it ( unsettling of financial markets ) , it was West German policy , " said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International in New York . " All Mr. Baker did was to mention the obvious in public , so making him responsible for it was a little like killing the messenger , " he said . After Monday 's talks , the U.S. and West German governments made it clear that the Louvre currency accord , pieced together in Paris in February , was still in effect . Wall Street feared that collapse of the agreement might be a prelude to hyper-inflation and economic malaise similar to the late 1970s . Analysts believe Monday 's Wall Street crash wiped out about 500 billion dlrs in stock values . Treasury sources said that Baker , already unhappy about Bonn 's refusal to stimulate its economy in order to keep the global recovery moving , was angered by a Bundesbank interest rate boost that seemed destined to do just the opposite . He felt that the U.S. recovery , inching along in its 59th month , could no longer be the only engine of global economic expansion . A growing U.S. economy has been serving as a huge market for debtor country exports . Moreover , Baker , the consummate politician , was worried that the Republican party might face next year 's presidential election with its main showpiece a vibrant economy badly tarnished . A rise in global interest rates might worsen the debt crisis and completely choke off U.S. economic growth that has already slowed to a tepid 3.2 pct annual rate . " There 's no doubt that it can have an adverse effect on the economy , and it 's important that the psychology turn around quickly , or else obviously the panic will feed on itself , and eventually there 'll be a serious price to pay economically , " former deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman said in a television interview . In many ways , the official response was mild . Washington was stunned by the sudden Wall Street retreat , with President Reagan speaking for most people by admitting that he was " puzzled . " U.S. government sources said the secretary immediately returned to the Treasury to be briefed on market developments and , presumably , their political impact . For all of this , it seems unlikely that Baker 's status in Washington will diminish because of the market fall . Asked by reporters if somebody 's head should roll because of the Wall Street retreat , Texas Democratic Senator Lloyd Bentsen said with some irony , " Oh , I think it 's much too late to be doing that You have an administration that 's taken the attitude that we can put the country on automatic pilot and --- retire to the living room to take a nap . You just ca n't do that . " Reuter 
<TEST	20766	acq>
<PSG> said it increased its stake in Airlease Ltd depositary units representing limited partners interest to 700,400 units , or 15.1 pct of the total outstanding , from a previous figure of approximately 651,000 units , or 14 pct . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group said it bought 49,400 Airlease units between July 16 andf October 15 at 17.23 dlrs to 17.60 dlrs a share . No reason was given for the recent purchases . Reuter 
<TEST	20769	interest>
with the actions of some banks to reduce their prime lending rates today and said he sees room for a further decline in interest rates . " I believe there is room in the market for a further decline in interest rates , " Reagan said in a statement as he left the White House to visit his wife Nancy at Bethesda Naval Hospital . Reagan 's statement followed a meeting with his top economic advisers . Reagan said he remains concerned about the market , but that actions taken by the Federal Reserve have helped . " Interest rates are down across the spectrum , " Reagan said . " S pecifically , I am pleased that the bond market is strong and that foreign exchange markets are stabl e , " Reagan said . Reuter 
<TEST	20774	ship	crude>
American warships headed down the Gulf on Wednesday , towards Iranian oil platforms still oozing smoke after having being blasted by U.S. Navy raiders . Some Gulf sea captains were reported to be steering well clear of Iran 's Silkworm missiles , however , and frontline emirate Kuwait redeployed air defences to counter the threat . " I think the predominant feeling Is of being scared this conflict will escalate , " a top West German Foreign Ministry official , Helmut Schaefer , told reporters in Bahrain after a tour of three Gulf states . b Shipping sources said on Tuesday night at least six sea captains had voiced fears that Iran would avenge Monday 's U.S. Raids by unleashing more Silkworm missiles at ships plying the Gulf . Belgium decided two minesweepers en route for the Gulf would stay out for the time being following Monday 's U.S. Action . But there was no sign that the prospect of more tit-for-tat assaults had reduced the level of shipping activity in the area . Iran , having vowed to react strongly after Monday 's U.S. Action , launched a barrage of threats and ridicule . For its part , Washington warned Iran again on Tuesday that it was ready for any further hostile action . Pentagon officials then announced that a U.S. Guided missile destroyer began escorting two Kuwaiti tankers flying the U.S. flag southwards--the 80,000 tonne product carrier Ocean City and 46,000 tonne petroleum tanker Gas King . Reuter 
<TEST	20775	acq>
said it will make a tender offer for all or any of the outstanding shares of common stock of Metex Corp <MTX> not currently held by or under option to Metropolitan for 7.75 dlrs per share . The company said the offer will be subject ot securing satisfactory financing . Metropolitan currently owns about 25.7 pct of Metex common and holds options to purchase about an additional 16 pct of Metex common stock . Metropolitan said the offer will be made no later than October 27 . Reuter 
<TEST	20778	crude>
between Iran and Iraq fell on Kuwait 's northern border on Tuesday but caused no casualties , the Kuwait News Agency KUNA said , quoting a Defense Ministry official . There were rumors in world oil markets on Tuesday that Iran had fired shells at an oil camp in northern Kuwait in retaliation for U.S. Attacks on Iranian oil platforms in the Gulf on Monday . " Several shells fell in a random manner on the northern border of the country , " the official told KUNA . " It seems these shells arose from an exchange of fire between Iran and Iraq... No one was wounded and there were no losses . " Diplomats said shells from the nearby Iran-Iraq warfront had in the past fallen in the northern Kuwaiti desert . A senior Kuwait Petroleum Corporation official had earlier told Reuters he was unaware of any attack against Kuwaiti oil installations . Reuter 
<TEST	20787	trade>
additional 84 mln dlrs in trade sanctions against Japan later this month , Reagan Administration officials said . President Reagan imposed 300 mln dlrs in sanctions on Japanese goods last April for its failure to honor a 1986 agreement to end dumping semiconductors in the U.S. and third country markets and to open its home market to U.S. goods . The move raised tariffs to 100 pct from about five pct on Japanese color television sets , hand-held power tools and portable computers . Reagan lifted 51 mln dlrs of the sanctions last June after Japan ended selling the semiconductors on the U.S. market at below production costs . Semiconductors are the small silicon chips used for memory and recall purposes in a wide variety of computers . The Administration officials said Commerce Department monitors showed that Japan was ending its dumping of the semiconductors in third countries , where they had been taking sales away from American-made semiconductors . They said it was likely the 51 mln dlrs in sanctions would be lifted by the end of the month . The United States and Japan remain at odds over opening the closed Japanese markets to U.S. goods . U.S. and Japanese officials reviewed Japan 's compliance with the agreement earlier this week . The periodic reviews are to continue and the remaining sanctions to stay in force , the officials said , until Japan is in full compliance with the semiconductor agreement . reuter 
<TEST	20792	acq>
merger agreement with privately held Central Point Software has been suspended indefinitely because of uncertainty in the stock market . Trace Products , which manufactures diskette and tape duplication equipment for software publishers , had earlier agreed to acquire Portland , Ore.-based Central Point for 5.5 mln shares of its common stock . Reuter 
<TEST	20795	money-fx>
States remains committed to the Louvre accord in which the seven major industrial nations agreed to stabilize currency exchange rates . " The United States remains committed to the Louvre agreement , " Reagan said in a statement following a meeting with his top economic advisers . Reagan said the United States , Japan and West Germany had all reaffirmed their commitment to coordinate economic policies . Reagan said Japanese Prime Minister-designate Noboru Takeshita said in a telephone conversation Tuesday morning that " his ( Takeshita 's ) top priority was to maintain stable economic relations with the United States . " Reagan noted that Treasury Secretary James Baker met with West German financial officials and reaffirmed their commitment to the Louvre agreement . They " reaffirmed our agreement to coordinate economic policies to provide for non-inflationary growth and stable exchange rates , " Reagan said . Reuter 
<TEST	20797	acq>
Entregrowth Interational Ltd , of Auckland , New Zealand , said it lifted its stake in Suave Shoe Corp common stock to 319,600 shares , or 11.5 pct of the total outstanding , from a previous figure of approximately 238,400 shares , or 8.6 pct . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group said it bought 81,200 Suave Shoe common shares in open market transactions between October 1 and 19 at 8.34 dlrs to 10.07 dlrs a share . No reason was given for the purchases . Reuter 
<TEST	20811	acq>
Securities and Exchange Commission ordered a private investigation into Southland stock trading and statements made by the company this year . " Southland has been advised that the Commission has issued a private order of investigation concerning the trading of Southland stock during various times in 1987 and the issuance of various public statements by Southland , " Southland said in a proxy statement to shareholders . Southland did not elaborate on the SEC order of investigation , and company officials could not be reached for comment late Tuesday . The SEC has a long-s tanding policy against confirming or denying the existence of investigations . The proxy statement , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission , is required for a November 5 shareholders meeting called to approve the previously announced acquisition of Southland by a company controlled by Southland chairman John Thompson and members of his family . Earlier this year , a group led by Thompson acquired majority ownership of Southland through a 77 dlrs a share tender offer for 31.5 mln shares of Southland common stock . If the merger is approved , common stock still outstanding will be converted into the right to receive 61.32 dlrs a share in cash plus a fraction of a share of preferred stock . Reuter 
<TEST	20824	acq>
Edelman , does not see any problems with its 65 dlr per share bid for Telex Corp , a Shearson Lehman official advising the group said . Several other takeover proposals have crumbled following declines in financial markets , leading to speculation that Edelman might also drop his offer . Telex fell 11 to 34-1/4 . Earlier today , Carl Icahn dropped his bid to take Trans World Airlines Inc <T WA> private and Dart Group Corp <DARTA.O> said it abandoned plans to acquire Dayton Hudson Corp <DH> . Both cited market conditions . " Nothing fundamental has changed with the company . The stock price has changed , but the company has n't changed so there 's no reason for us to change , " said Daniel Good , head of Shearson Lehman merchant banking . " Things are proceeding as planned , and we fully expect that at the time we have to pay for the shares the financing will be in place , " Good said . Shearson has agreed to provide bridge financing of up to 600 mln dlrs for the Edelman group . Reuter 
<TEST	20828	crude	ship>
President Reagan 's retaliatory strike against Iranian targets in the Gulf as it moved to take a greater role in making policy in the volatile region . Senators voted 92-1 for a non-binding measure that endorsed Monday 's U.S. attack on two Iranian oil platforms in retaliation for an Iranian attack last Friday on a Kuwaiti ship flying the American flag . The measure said the attack was a firm indication of U.S. resolve that Iran " cannot take military action against the United States with impunity . " Earlier , the Senate cut off Republican stalling tactics and set a vote on a measure that could give Congress a larger role in making Gulf policy . The measure , however , does not require Reagan to comply with the 1973 War Powers Act , which could lead to a pullout of U.S. forces from the Gulf . While Democrats and Republicans praised the U.S. retaliatory strike , many voiced new fears about the growing U.S. involvement in the Gulf and some demanded that Reagan comply with the War Powers Act . Reuter 
<TEST	20829	trade>
international trade talks that most trade-distorting farm subsidies be phased out over a five year period , Trade Minister Pat Carney said . " Agricultural subsidies and trade barriers have created a vicious circle which continues to cause problems of overproduction and low commodity prices , " Carney told the House of Commons . Carney was outlining the government 's new position on the farm trade problem that was tabled on Tuesday in Geneva in the multilateral talks under the GATT ( General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ) . While few details were released , Carney said the government would also be pressing for an improvement in market access and new measures to ensure countries do not erect artificial barriers . " Under the Canadian proposal , all countries would have to ensure that domestic policies and programs to address the specific needs of their farm sectors do not distort trade , " a government background paper said . " Furthermore , in assessing the trade impact of programs , credit could be given to countries which effectively control the output of farm products , " the papers said . Reuter 
<TEST	20834	acq>
acquire the three-branch Citizens Bank of Roseville in a stock swap . The value of the agreement will be based on Citizens ' adjusted book value at year end and the trading price of First Commerc ial 's stock . Citizens ' book value was about 1.9 mln dlrs at the end of the third quarter , according to the bank 's counsel , Guy Gibson . Under the agreement , Citizens shareholders could also trade their stock for a five-year debenture issued by First Commerc ial . Terms of the debenture have not been established . Reuter 
<TEST	20835	acq>
<United Cable Television Corp> said they have indefinitely suspended negotiations on a proposed merger of their companies previously announced . The companies cited a combination of extraordinary market conditions and unresolved terms of the merger as contributing to the action . Reuter 
<TEST	20840	acq>
has sold nine storage facilities to Southmark Corp for 37.1 mln dlrs . National Self , a developer of storage space for business records , said the purchase includes nine storage facilties . National Self also said it and Southmark plan a two-year 100 facility expansion program in South Florida and across the country . Reuter 
<TEST	20865	trade>
said on Monday that the U.S. free trade agreements with Canada and Israel should help to pave the way for liberalizing the global trading system . He said the Canadian and Israeli pacts will not set back worldwide reform efforts under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ( GATT ) as some critics feared but help them . The GATT talks began a year ago in Punta del Este , Uruguay to liberalize the global trading system and to include in it trade in agriculture and services such as banking . Yeutter made his remarks at a U.S.-Israeli trade meeting marking the second year of their bilateral accord . The Canadian-U.S. pact , signed by two sides two weeks ago , has yet been approved by the U.S. Congress and Canadian Parliament . The two free trade agreements ( FTA ) would gradually remove tariffs and other barriers to cross-border trade in goods and many services . Yeutter said in the aftermath of the Canadian and Israeli pacts " other countries have realized that if they want to continue to have access to the world 's largest market , they had better get serious about improving the GATT . " The pact with Israel , he said , is gradually increasing shipments both ways and the Canadian pact will substantially increase the gross national products in both countries . Yeutter also said the Canadian and Israeli pacts should serve as important precedents for progress in GATT . Yeutter said , " increasing trade is one of the keys to enhanced political and economic stability around the globe . " He said , " a stronger GATT will enhance prosperity , not only for advanced industrial nations , but also for other countries that need to increase trade in order to better their standards of living . " Yeutter added it was important not to risk the progress made in the Israeli and Canadian trade pacts by resorting to protectionism . He was referring to trade legislation pending in Congress that would force the United States to take retaliatory actions against nations with large trade surpluses with the United States if the countries practiced unfair trade . The legislation was prompted by a growing U.S. trade deficit that hit 156 billion dlrs last year and is still rising . Yeutter said the pressures for Congress to act were hard to resist , but the pending legislation would undermine President Reagan 's efforts to liberalize the world trade . Yeutter renewed the threat of a White House veto . He said , " President Reagan will veto any bill that contains serious flaws , and I believe that veto would be sustained . " Reuter 
<TEST	20868	money-fx>
Secretary James Baker and West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg on Monday soothed currency markets , allowing the dollar to recoup much of the day 's losses , dealers said . News of the meeting , which took place in Frankfurt in great secrecy , came after the dollar fell sharply on criticism by Baker of West German monetary policy , which had provoked fears that the Louvre pact on currency stability was in jeopardy . The dollar reacted immediately to the news , rising over two pfennigs in after hours New York trading , dealers there said . The announcement of the meeting , also attended by Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl , was made simultaneously in Bonn and Washington , timed for after the closure of New York markets . Baker , Stoltenberg and Poehl agreed to pursue the policies accepted under the February Louvre accord , a finance ministry spokesman in Bonn said . The dollar rose to 1.7970/90 marks from New York 's close of 1.7730/ 40 . It had closed there on Friday at 1.7975/85 marks . The dollar had tumbled nearly three pfennigs as the market reacted to Baker 's criticism of rising West German interest rates , and stock markets crashed worldwide . Baker had said that West Germany was apparently breaching the Louvre accord . Under the accord , leading industrial democracies pledged to coordinate economic policies to foster currency stability , with the surplus countries , West Germany and Japan , stimulating their economies and the U.S. promising to cut its budget deficit . West German government sources said rising West German money market rates could not be seen as a breach of the Louvre pact . They were rather a direct reaction to higher interest rates in the United States . U.S. Bond yields have been rising since May on inflationary fears and in early September the Fed raised the discount rate to 6.00 pct from 5.50 . German yields have also risen over this period , but less markedly , and since late September the Bundesbank has nudged up short-term rates by changing the terms on its security repurchase pacts , its principal instrument for steering the money market . The allocation rate on the last facility was 3.85 pct , compared with 3.60 pct . This was partly due to West Germany 's inability to uncouple itself from U.S. interest rate trends , but also reflected concern among monetary conservatives in the Bundesbank central bank council about excessive monetary growth , which raised fears of domestically produced inflation , bank economists said . This monetary tightening reflected a switch from the pragmatic line pursued by Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl since early this year to stabilise the mark externally , to the more cautious approach of Vice President Helmut Schlesinger . In an apparent gesture to Baker , coinciding with his visit , the Bundesbank repeatedly added money market liquidity this morning . Dealers said this was clearly a move to appease U.S. anger over the most recent West German interest rate rises . " They ( the Bundesbank ) just do n't want to come too much under American fire , " said Chris Zwermann , currency adviser at Swiss Bank Corp here . " It seems to me that this is the Bundesbank beating quite a significant retreat from its position , " added Giles Keating , economist at Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd in London . The significance that retreat will emerge from the terms of the Bundesbank 's next tender for a securities repurchase pact on Tuesday , and its result on Wednesday , money market economists said . Today 's injection of liquidity shows that the Bundesbank does not want a further strong rise in the tender allocation rate , which is likely to turn out at between 3.80 and 3.90 pct , little changed from the 3.85 pct on the last facility . The Bundesbank and Finance Ministry had given no indication that the meeting would take place , although the Finance Ministry spokesman said it had been arranged last week . Earlier on Monday the Finance Ministry spokesman , asked to comment on the apparent U.S.-German clash over the Louvre accord , went no further than quoting Stoltenberg as saying he assumed monetary cooperation would continue . The spokesman said he believed Baker had already left West Germany for Sweden on Monday . This week he is also due to visit Denmark and Belgium . Reuter 
<TEST	20869	crude>
the lack of any major new discoveries in recent years will send the world into an energy crisis by 1990 , the former Atlantic Richfield Co chairman Robert O. Anderson said . " It 's going to come sooner than anyone thinks , " Anderson told reporters after addressing a Houston business lunch . " I believe we 're going to see a change in the world oil markets in two to three years because oil is becoming harder to find . " Anderson , who retired from Arco last year to form Hondo Oil and Gas Co , said world oil consumption is approaching 60 mln barrels a day but a current excess capacity cushion of about 4.5 mln barrels a day will rapidly disappear . " If you looked around the world , you could not scrape up one mln barrels a day in shut-in production outside the Middle East , " he said . " We 're soon going to be right back where we were in 1973 and 1979 . " Anderson predicted that world oil prices would end 1987 at about 24 dlrs a barrel and continue a gradual climb . " There 's no way prices can stay flat because there is n't enough supply , " he said . " There have been no major oil discoveries for the past 15 to 20 years . " Alaska 's Prudhoe Bay oil reserves , the last major world discovery , has already produced about five billion barrels of oil or more than half of its estimated reserves , he said . Reuter 
<TEST	20878	crude>
raise its OPEC quota above 221,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) because it is a justifiable demand , Venezuelan Energy Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said on Monday . He told reporters the country deserved a higher quota in compensation for the five months it was forced to suspend oil production when its main pipeline was destroyed by an earthquake last March . " For this five-month period , Ecuador did not exercise its right to produce 221,000 bpd , " he said . " We should recognize Ecuador 's right to increase its quota There is a basis of justice in that country 's petition . " He added however , the quota increase should be gradual to avoid harming the market , he added . Hernandez Grisanti said he understood Ecuador would formally submit the request for a higher quota at the next ministerial conference of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) opening December 9 in Vienna . Reuter 
<TEST	20881	crude	ship>
of self-defense in destroying an Iranian oil platform in the Gulf , the American delegation told the United Nations . Lieutenant General Vernon Walters sent letters about the incident to Security Council President Maurizio Bucci , the delegate of Italy , and Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar . U.N. press secretary Francois Giuliani said the Secretary General had no comment on the attack , which followed his appeal last Friday for restraint in the crisis while he pursued efforts to obtain a ceasefire between Iran and Iraq. In his explanation , Walters said the United States took defensive action in response to an Iranian attack against American ships in the Gulf . He cited an Iranian Silkworm missile strike last Friday in Kuwait waters against the United States-flag ship Sea Isle City . Walters said that military forces on the destroyed Iranian platform had engaged in a variety of actions against United States-flag and other nonbelligerent vessels and planes . " In accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations ( Charter ) , I wish , on behalf of my government , to report that United States forces have exercised the inherent right of self-defense under internation law by taking defensive action in response to attacks by . . . Iran against United States vessels in the Gulf , " Walters said . Members of the Security Council met behind closed doors on Monday to discuss developments in the Gulf war , but no statement was issued afterwards . Reuter 
<TEST	20882	crude	ship>
Attack on an Iranian target while calling for a swift halt to the Gulf War to avoid further escalation . " The French authorities reaffirm their attachment to the freedom and security of navigation and to the right of all states to take action under international law and the United Nations charter to halt attacks such as that of October 16 , " the Foreign Ministry spokesman said in a statement . The United States said its forces destroyed an Iranian oil platform in the Gulf and struck at a second on Monday in retaliation for a recent Iranian missile attack on a U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti ship . Washington said the platforms were used to monitor shipping and to launch small-boat attacks on shipping . The French statement described the target as " an Iranian military platform . " But the French statement added that " everything must be done now to avoid that these military developments lead to a new escalation of the conflict . " Reuter 
<TEST	20887	acq>
Bancorp> said they reached a preliminary agreement to merge . C and H Bancorp has assets of 257 mln dlrs and is the parent company of Citizens Heritage Bank N.A. The companies said the agreement calls for each of the about one mln shares of C and H Bancorp to be exchanged for one share of Fifth Third Bancorp . Based on its financial expectations , Fifth Third said the dilution in per share earnings for the merger will be negligible . Reuter 
<TEST	20890	ship	crude>
President Reagan for the U.S. strike against Iranian targets in the Gulf but the attack fueled a sharp new White House-Congress debate over limits on his powers to make war . The Pentagon announced on Monday that U.S. warships destroyed a non-producing oil platform used for monitoring Gulf ship traffic and military operations , and also raided a second Iranian oil rig in retaliation for an earlier Iranian attack on a Kuwaiti ship flying the American flag . Many Democrats , who control Congress , and Republicans expressed support for the attack and praised it as an appropriate " measured response . " But Democrats and liberal Republicans voiced new fears that the growing confrontation between Tehran and the United States could erupt into a major war , and demanded that Reagan comply with the 1973 War Powers Act , which could lead to a pullout of American forces from the waterway . "Those who contend the strike was necessary must realize their words are easily construed as a tacit endorsement of war with Iran , " said Sen Mark Hatfield of Oregon , a Republican . Reuter 
<TEST	20893	money-fx>
Lawson welcomed on Monday the reaffirmation by the U.S. And West Germany of the Louvre accord aimed at stabilising currencies . His office said Lawson had welcomed the outcome of a meeting between U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker , Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl , and West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg in Frankfurt . After the meeting , a Bonn finance ministry spokesman quoted Stoltenberg as saying he was confident that foreign currencies could be stabilised at around current levels . The meeting came after Baker criticised West Germany for increasing key interest rates , saying they were not in line with last February 's Louvre accord . Reuter 
<TEST	20898	acq>
Co Inc said it withdrew its offer to acquire Delchamps Inc <DLCH.O> for 27 dlrs a share or about 175 mln dlrs , which was made earlier this month . Michael Rourke , A and P vice president , said the company withdrew the offer because Delchamps did not respond favorably to it and because of market conditions . He would not comment on whether A and P would make another offer to acquire Delchamps . Reuter 
<TEST	20902	ship>
the cabinet on Monday he was worried about the increased tension in the Gulf , but said America 's retaliation against Iran had been limited . A statement issued after a cabinet meeting said Goria had been informed by the United States that it would take action against an Iranian target in the Gulf , but had not known beforehand that the action would involve an attack on an oil platform . " The prime minister expressed his concern over the possible consequences of increased tension in the Gulf , at the same time recognizing the limited character of the American military reaction to the attacks it has suffered in the past few days , " the statement said . Goria said Italy 's own ships were far from the platform at the time of the attack and the fleet had been advised to follow events with caution . Italy has sent eight ships , including three frigates and three minesweepers , to the Gulf to protect Italian merchant shipping there . Reuter 
<TEST	20905	acq>
Tennant Bryant , said his family would not sell its controlling share block , so it would be impossible for an investor group led by <Giant Group Ltd> to gain control of the company . The investor group , which includes Barris Industries <BRRS.O> , recently reported that it acquired a 9.8 pct stake of Media General 's class A shares and might seek control . Bryant said the company 's class A stock elects only 30 pct of the board , with the remaining 70 pct being elected by class B shares , two-thirds of which are controlled by the Bryant family trust , which has no intention of selling its shares . Reuter 
<TEST	20907	money-fx>
German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl in Frankfurt on Monday , a Bonn Finance Ministry spokesman said . After the meeting the spokesman quoted Stoltenberg as saying he was confident that foreign currencies could be stabilised at around current levels . The meeting came after Baker criticised West Germany for increasing short-term money market interest rates . He had said the rise was not in line with the spirit of the Louvre accord aimed at stabilizing the U.S. dollar last February . The meeting had been arranged last week , the spokesman said . Baker , Stoltenberg and Poehl had agreed to pursue the policies agreed under the Louvre pact with reference to currency stability and monetary policy . Earlier on Monday the Bundesbnak injected liquidity into the West German money market in a move which money market dealers interpreted as an attempt by the West German monetary authority to curb interest rate rises . The spokesman described Monday 's talks , which he called private , as very positive . Reuter 
<TEST	20909	crude>
velayati , here on a two-day official visit , informed cuban foreign ministry officials on monday on the tense situation in the gulf , diplomatic sources said . They said the envoy 's trip , to be followed from tuesday by a visit to nicaragua , could be linked to a possible mediation of the non-ali gned movement in the seven-year-old iran-iraq war but they ruled out any prominent cuban role in it . Velayati could not be reached for comment on the U.S. Attack on an abandoned iranian oil rig on monday which tehran vowed to avenge . Reuter 
<TEST	20917	acq>
previously it may seek control of Gull Inc , said it increased its stake in Gull common stock to 388,900 shares , or 7.7 pct of the total outstanding , from a previous figure of approximately 318,000 shares , or 6.2 pct . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Gary Associates said it made net purchases of 70, 900 Gull common shares at 15 dlrs to 18.62 dlrs a share . Gary Associates made no mention of a possible takeover attempt in its report to the SEC . Reuter 
<TEST	20919	crude>
prices for most U.S. grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel , effective October 16 . The move brings the price the company will pay for the U.S. benchmark grade , West Texas Intermediate , and West Texas Sour to 19 dlrs a barrel . The price was last changed September 9 , Unocal said . Reuter 
<TEST	20922	money-fx>
President Jacques Delors called for a swift convening of a meeting of the G-7 countries following the instability in today 's trading on world money and stock markets . He told a press conference here " G-7 should meet discreetly and quickl y . " Delors said if the dollar were to fall further against the mark to levels around 1.60 , the European Monetary System would undergo a " test by fire . " Delors said the current problems in the markets had been caused by excessive growth in financial trading , excessive deregulation and the failure of the fundamentals of the world economy to adapt themselves quickly enough to changing circumstances . He said it was " profoundly unjust " to blame it on recent increases in West Germany . Reuter 
<TEST	20925	money-fx>
met West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl today in West Germany and agreed to support the Louvre pact , the Treasury Department said . The Treasury described the meeting as " a very positive , private meeting in Frankfurt , West Germany which had been agreed upon last week . " The parties agreed to continue economic cooperation under the Louvre agreement and its flexible application including cooperation on exchange rate stability and monetary policie s , " the Treasury said . The Treasury said Baker and Stoltenberg " are consulting with their G-7 colleagues and are confident that this will enable them to foster exchange rate stability around current levels . " The Louvre pact is an agreement between the Group of Seven leading industrial countries including the United States and West Germany to promote currency stability . Baker was scheduled to visit Scandinavia and Belgium this week and the department earlier refused to release details of his travel itinerary , citing security considerations . Reuter 
<TEST	20936	crude>
said it increased contract prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel , effective today . Arco said the 50 cts increase brings its posted price for West Texas Intermediate , the U.S. benchmark grade , to 19.00 dlrs a barrel . The price of West Texas Sour was increased to 18.10 dlrs . Light Louisiana Sweet was raised to 19.35 dlrs . The price was last changed on September 30 . Reuter 
<TEST	20945	acq>
said it increased its stake in Calny Inc common stock to 1,349,884 shares , or 27.9 pct of the total outstanding , from a previous figure of approximately 1,230,107 shares , or 25.4 pct . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Taco Bell said it bought 119,867 Calny common shares on October 15 and 16 at 10.75 dlrs a share . No reason was given for the recent purchases . Reuter 
<TEST	20946	acq>
agreed to buy two Quebec construction wholesalers , ( Nap Dumont ( 1982 ) Ltd ) and ( Nap Transport Cie Ltd ) for 3.5 mln dlrs . Macyro said the two companies operate in the construction material , electiricty , plumbing , hardware and locksmithing sectors and had sales of 23.5 mln dlrs last year . Reuter 
<TEST	20959	crude>
Joint Chiefs of Staff , predicted Iran will retaliate for the U.S. strike against its oil platform though he said Iranian options were limited . " They will be determined . They will not be easily deterred , and let me stress for you that our commitment there is not going to be risk free or casualty free . " He said the most likely Iranian response would involve terrorism or the laying of mines . " They obviously will look for ways that are probably more in line with the 'silent hand ' than what they have tried thus far , " Crowe told an American Stock Exchange conference . He declined comment on a reporter 's query whether he favored a stronger move against Iran than that ordered by the president . " We carried out the operation that was decided upon and we carried it out with enthusiasm and I think it was professionally and well done , " Crowe said . Reuter 
<TEST	20981	crude	ship>
platform in the Gulf on Monday and the Navy also raided a second oil rig in retaliation for Friday 's Iranian missile attack on a U.S. flag tanker , the Pentagon said . President Reagan and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger warned Iran of even stronger countermeasures if the military escalation between the two countries continued in the volatile waterway . Reagan said he ordered the strike on the first platform by four U.S. destroyers , which fired about 1,000 five-inch shells at the Rostam oil rig 120 miles east of Bahrain in the central Gulf . A short time later , Navy personnel boarded a second Iranian oil platform about five miles to the north and destroyed radar and communications equipment before leaving the structure , the Pentagon said . Defense Department spokesman Fred Hoffman told reporters that the second platform had been abandoned by Iranian personnel during the shelling and destruction of the first rig . The United States said both platforms were being used to keep track of Gulf merchant shipping and to launch speedboat attacks on such shipping by Iranian Revolutionary guards . Reuter 
<TEST	20982	acq>
Simon and Schuster , said it agreed in principle to acquire <Woodhead-Faulkner ( Publishers ) Ltd> , a British-based publisher of professional and consumer books , for undisclosed terms . Upon completion of the proposed transaction , Woodhead-Faulkner will become part of Simon and Schuster 's International Group , which in the U.K. includes Simon and Schuster trade books , and Prentice Hall academic texts . Simon and Schuster said that Woodhead-Faulkner will continue to publish under that name . The company will continue to be under the direction of Martin Woodhead , who will report to Henry Hirschberg , president of Simon and Schuster 's International Group . Woodhead-Faulkner , founded in 1972 , publishes international banking , finance , and investment books . Reuter 
<TEST	20989	trade>
offer limited concessions to the United States on one of two major issues which threaten to poison their trade relations next year , an EC commission spokesman said . He said the offer would be made at a meeting later this month between U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter and EC External Relations Commissioner Willy de Clercq . EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen told agriculture ministers meeting in Luxembourg that the EC is willing to make some temporary arrangements to lighten the impact on U.S. Exports of an EC plan to ban the sales of meat from animals fed with growth hormones , the spokesman said . Washington has said it will take trade reprisals if the EC proceeds with the ban from January 1 and if European countries do not quickly cut back what it sees as unfair subsidies to the makers of their Airbus airliner which are harming U.S. Manufacturers. It claims the hormones ban has no scientific basis and will rob it of 130 mln dlrs ' worth of exports a year . Diplomatic sources said the Yeutter-de Clercq meeting will take place in London and will also involve the aerospace ministers of France , Britain , West Germany and Spain , the countries involved in the Airbus project . Reuter 
<TEST	20991	crude	ship>
Howe backed the United States ' attack on an Iranian oil platform on Monday and said it should not worsen the Gulf crisis . " The United States is fully entitled to take military action in exercise of rights of self-defense , in the face of the imminent threat of further attacks , " Howe said in a statement issued in London . The United States said its forces destroyed the platform on Monday in retaliation for an Iranian missile attack on a U.S. flagged Kuwaiti ship last Friday . Referring to that attack , Howe added , " I trust the Iranians will fully understand that continued attacks of this kind will only enhance justification for firm action in self-defense . " At a press conferenced in Luxembourg during a meeting of European Community ( EC ) ministers , Howe was asked about statements from a senior Iranian official who said America was now involved in a full-scale war . " It would be profoundly undesirable and quite unjustified for Iran to react in that way , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	21000	acq>
offer to enter into negotiations for <Intercep Investment Corp> of Vancouver , B.C. , to acquire a controlling interest in the company through a tender offer . CCR said the negotiations would determine the terms under which the CCR board could support an Intercep tender offer . Additional details were not immediately available . Reuter 
<TEST	21002	crude	ship>
beacons usually lit up like Christmas trees at night . One of them , sitting astride the Rostam offshore oilfield , was all but blown out of the water by U.S. Warships on Monday . The Iranian plat form , an unsightly mass of steel and concrete , was a three-tier structure rising 200 feet ( 60 metres ) above the warm waters of the Gulf until four U.S. Destroyers pumped some 1,000 shells into it . The U.S. Defense Department said just 10 pct of one section of the structure remained . U.S. helicopters destroyed three Iranian gunboats after an American helicopter came under fire earlier this month and U.S. forces attacked , seized , and sank an Iranian ship they said had been caught laying mines . But Iran was not deterred , according to U.S. defense officials , who said Iranian forces used Chinese-made Silkworm missiles to hit a U.S.-owned Liberian-flagged ship on Thursday and the Sea Isle City on Friday . Both ships were hit in the territorial waters of Kuwait , a key backer of Iraq in its war with Iran . Henry Schuler , a former U.S. diplomat in the Middle East now with CSIS said Washington had agreed to escort Kuwaiti tankers in order to deter Iranian attacks on shipping . But he said the deterrence policy had failed and the level of violence and threats to shipping had increased as a result of U.S. intervention and Iran 's response . The attack on the oil platform was the latest example of a U.S. " tit-for-tat " policy that gave Iran the initiative , said Harlan Ullman , an ex-career naval officer now with CSIS . He said with this appraoch America would suffer " the death of one thousand cuts . " But for the United States to grab the initiative militar ily , it must take warlike steps such as mining Iran 's harbors or blockading the mouth of the Gulf through which its shipping must pass , Schuler said . He was among those advocating mining as a means of bringing Iran to the neogtiating table . If vital supplies were cut off , Tehran could not continue the war with Iraq. Ullman said Washington should join Moscow in a diplomatic initiative to end the war and the superpowers should impose an arms embargo against Tehran if it refused to negotiate . He said the United States should also threaten to mine and blockade Iran if it continued fighting and must press Iraq to acknowledge responsibility for starting the war as part of a settlement . Iranian and Western diplomats say Iraq started the war by invading Iran 's territory in 1980 . Iraq blames Iran for the outbreak of hostilities , which have entailed World War I-style infantry attacks resulting in horrific casualties . Each side has attacked the others ' shipping . Reuter 
<TEST	21006	crude	ship>
in the Gulf on Monday appeared to be a tit-for-tat raid carefully orchestrated not to be too provocative or upset Arab allies , Western diplomats in the region said . U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger said Monday that U.S. Warships destroyed the oil platform in the southern Gulf in response to a missile strike on the American-registered Kuwaiti tanker Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters on Friday . " We consider the matter closed , " he said , a signal the U.S. administration did not want the Gulf crisis to escalate . Iran had warned the United States earlier in the day against exacerbating the Gulf crisis , saying military action would endanger American interests . Following the raid , a okesman for Tehran 's War Information Headquarters vowed to avenge the attack with a " crushing blow . " " The United States has entered a swamp from which it can in no way get out safely , " Tehran Radio quoted him as saying . Diplomats noted , however , Iran was also seeking to avoid ostracism by Arab states due to meet at a summit in Amman on November 8 and discuss the Iran-Iraq war . Iranian Prime Minister Mir -Hossein Mousavi is currently in Damascus , and diplomats said he would seek Syrian help in preventing a total Arab breach with Tehran . Further escalation of the war threatening the Gulf Arab states could work against Tehran at the Amman gathering , they said . " The ball is in Iran 's court now . It 's up to Tehran to respond one way or the other , " a diplomat said . President Ronald Reagan warned Iran of stronger American countermeasures if the military escalation continued . Western diplomats and military sources in the area said shelling the platform appeared to be the least provocative act the United States could have taken once it had decided to retaliate for the tanker attack , blamed by both the Americans and Kuwaitis on Iran . " It 's interesting that they chose something in international waters because it does n't implicate any other nation , " one diplomat said . " This was better for U.S. Relations with the Gulf Arab states , particularly Kuwait . " Commented another diplomat " K uwait must be happy that the U.S. Has done something , but relieved that Faw was not attacked on its doorstep . " One source said of the attack on the oil platform " They managed to warn off the crew and hit something that was the least nuisance to everybody . " A diplomat commented " They were very clever in the place they chose . It gets attention , but it has n't devastated anything because it was n't working in the first place . " A senior Arab banker in the area said after the news broke " This was a good , measured response without risking a flare-up It is a face-saving response ( for the Americans ) . " Reuter 
<TEST	21007	acq>
Inc , a unit fo Genevar Enterprises Inc , said it has purchased the ongoing business , trademarks and certain assets of Rhone-Poulenc 's Brown Disc Manufacturing unit , for undisclosed terms . Rhone-Poulenc is a French-based chemical company . Under the agreement , Rhone-Poulenc will supply magnetic tape and media products to Brown Disc Products . Reuter 
<TEST	21013	crude	ship>
faces a dilemma in the Gulf following U.S. destruction of an Iranian oil platform in retaliation for an attack on a U.S.-flagged tanker . The experts told Reuters Tehran holds the initiative and is likely to control the tempo and direction of the conflict as long as America simply reacts to Iranian attacks by launching limited retaliatory strikes . But if Washington seizes the initiative with bolder steps such as mining Iran 's harbors , blockading its shipping , or destroying key bases it could find itself in a major war . " Iran is in the driver 's seat in an absolute sense as the cycle of attack and retaliation continues , " said Fred Axelgard , a Gulf War expert with the private Center for Strategic and International Studies ( CSIS ) . " It 's like a Greek tragedy , " said retired Adm. Eugene Carroll of Washington 's private Center for Defense Information ( CDI ) think tank . Some Middle East experts say the only way out is for Washington to join forces with Moscow in pressing for an end to the war between Iran and Iraq. They say it is not feasible for America to withdraw its 30-ship force from the Gulf area , where the Navy began escorting U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tankers in July . Withdrawal would give the appearance of being chased away by Iran , which President Reagan could never accept . U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger told a Pentagon news conference the destroyers Kidd , Young , Leftwich and Hoel fired about 1,000 rounds of five-inch shells at Iran 's Rostam oil rig 120 miles east of Bahrain beginning at about 1400 Gulf time ( 0700 EDT ) on Monday . Weinberger said the platform had been used as a military base by Iran and that the attack responded to an Iranian Silkworm missile strike on the U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tanker Sea Isle City on Friday . Iranians manning the platform were warned in advance and allowed to escape . " We do not seek further confrontation with Iran , but we will be prepared to meet any escalation of military action by Iran with stronger countermeasures , " Weinberger said . " We consider this matter closed , " he said . Analysts ranging from the liberal CDI to conservatives agreed the U.S. reaction was measured , reasonable and did not escalate the conflict unduly . But they said the question was whether Iran would consider the matter closed . It had not taken this view after earlier clashes . Reuter 
<TEST	21018	crude>
Stats Oljeselskap ( Statoil ) signed contracts worth a total of 1.5 billion Norwegian crowns in connection with the development of the Veslefrikk oil field , Statoil said . Moss Rosenberg Verft of Stavanger has been awarded a contract to convert the the drilling platform West Vision to a floating production platform . The work is to be completed in the summer of 1989 . Aker Verdal has been awarded a contract for the engineering , purchasing and construction of the steel jacket for the wellhead plat form , also to be completed in 1989 , Statoil said . Reuter 
<TEST	21019	acq>
sale of British Petroleum Co Plc will go ahead as planned , despite Monday 's stock market crash which forced BP below the 330p a share set for the 7.2 billion stg issue . " The government are not considering terminating the BP offer . The offer has been fully underwrit ten , " a Treasury spokesman said . The issue , which remains open until October 28 , was fully underwritten last week when the issue price was set . BP shares closed down 33p at 317p as the FT-SE 100 share index crashed a record 249.6 points , more than 10 pct . Reuter 
<TEST	21023	money-fx>
nations should hold a special meeting to deal with the U.S. Dollar 's sharp decline , Helmut Geiger , president of the West German savings bank association , said . Geiger told Reuters " Finance ministers should meet soon to take confidence-building measures to limit the damage caused by the dollar 's fall . " Separately , Geiger told Bild newspaper in an interview released ahead of publication on Tuesday that the lower dollar , which had been artificially talked down by U.S. officials , would damage West German exports and cost jobs . Reuter 
<TEST	21030	acq>
Angeles Superior Court against Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) Ltd , against certain of its affiliates and against Ronald Langley , president of Industrial Equity 's North American operations . The company said its sut charges that Langley missapropriated material non-public information acquired in his capacity as a CalMat director and used the information for the benefit of Industrial E quity . According to its more recent amendment to its Schedule 13D , Industrial Equity owned about 19.17 pct of CalMat 's stock at October 14 , CalMat said . It said Industrial has also stated that it intends to pursue a possible business combination in the near future . Reuter 
<TEST	21031	trade>
Department should be vigilant in preventing the flow of strategic technology from reaching the the Soviet Union and other communist countries . He was speaking at the swearing in of C. William Verity as Secretary of the Commerce Department . Verity said the U.S. should make certain that militarily sensitive high technology does not wind up in communist nations . But he also said the U.S. must reduce the list of products of a nontechnological nature , thereby allowing manufacturers to increase exports and jobs . Reuter 
<TEST	21039	acq>
entered into a definitive agreement to acquire DFM Corp , a maker of bug and gravel protective shields for trucks and cars , for an undisclosed amount of cash and debentures , retroactive to September One . Reuter 
<TEST	21040	acq>
100,000 shares of Charter-Crellin Inc common stock , or 6.3 pct of the total outstanding , and may seek control in a negotiated transaction . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Atlantis said it has informally discussed a business combination with Charter-Crellin management . But the company said it has not held negotiations with Charter-Crellin and does not intend to initiate further discussions . Pending development of specific proposals , Atlantis said it will continue to purchase additional Charter-Crellin shares in private or open market transactions depending on a range of factors including the market price of the stock . Atlantis said it bought its Charter-Crellin common stock in open market transactions between September 22 and October 7 at 14.91 dlrs to 15.62 dlrs a share , or for a total of about 1.51 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	21041	acq>
principle to acquire a privately-held firm that performs interior cleaning services for tank-trailers for 1,300,000 common shares . It said the firm , which it did not name , earned about 1,500,000 dlrs pretax for the first nine mons of 1987 . The company said closing is expected by October 31 . Reuter 
<TEST	21046	acq>
talks with Sante Fe Southern Pacific Corp concerning the possible acquisition of Sante Fe 's Southern Pacific Transportation Co subsidiary . The company also said it is reviewing its investment in Santa Fe Southern Pacific in light of Sante Fe 's announcement that it recieved several bids ranging from 750 mln dlrs to more than one billion dlrs for its Southern Pafific Transportation subsidiary . Henley said it held discussions with Sante Fe concerning the acquisition by Henley of Bankers Leasing and Financial Corp and certain Sante Fe transportation and real estate assets . Henley said it began talks with Sante Fe after it announced its restructuring program in August 1987 . As previously disclosed , Henley made necessary filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Acts to permit Henley to increase its investment in Sante Fe to 24.9 pct of the outstanding common stock from 5.03 pct . Henley said that depending on prevailing conditions , including price and availability of Sante Fe stock , substantial developments affecting Sante Fe , other investment and business opportunities available to Henley , Henley may additional Sante Fe shares , or sell all or part of its investment in Sante Fe . Reuter 
<TEST	21050	acq>
said it agreed to sell its Texas American Bank/Levelland unit to <First American Bancorp Inc> for about 12 mln dlrs in cash . Texas American said regulatory approval ofthe transaction is expected in December , and the sale will close shortly thereafter . Once the sale is completed , the unit 's name will change to First American Bank of Texas . The unit reported total assets of 196.7 mln dlrs on Juen 30 , 1987 . Reuter 
<TEST	21051	acq>
agreed to sell 11 super drug stores to <F and M Distributors> . The nine existing and two unopened stores are located in Maryland , Virginia and upstate New York and are operated under the Pathmark Super Drug trade name , the company said . Terms of the transaction were not disclosed . The nine existing stores generated approximately 34.8 mln dlrs of Supermarkets General 's total sales of 2.9 billion during the six-month period ended Aug One , 1987 . F and M Distributors operates 42 discount drug stores in Michigan , Ohio , Illinois , Indiana and Wisconsin . Reuter 
<TEST	21060	acq>
of its industrial electronic products group and expects to recognize about a 3.0 mln dlr pretax gain on the transaction in the fourth quarter . It said the group was sold October 15 for 13.5 mln dlrs to Maxtec International Corp , a privately held company created by the company 's management team . It said the purchase price was 12 mln dlrs in cash and 1.5 mln dlrs in five-year notes plus warrants to buy 7.0 pct of the stock of Maxtec . Dynascan said the group was projected to provide about 12 pct of its consolidated sales in 1987 . Reuter 
<TEST	21065	acq>
SA > is negotiating to buy the property assets of U.S. media company Cannon Group Inc <CAN> , Renta 's finance director Jose Luis Sanchez said . Sanchez told Reuters that Renta 's chairman Juan Antonio Robles was currently in the U.S. to negotiate the deal but declined to give other details . Interpart , a Luxembourg-based holding company chaired by Italian financier Giancarlo Paretti , payed around 12.2 billion pesetas in July to acquire a 63.5 pct stake in Renta Inmobiliaria . The Spanish daily newspaper El Pais said the Cannon property assets sought by Renta included the Elstree film studios in Britain and a chain of movie-theaters in Europe and the U.S. Reuter 
<TEST	21067	crude>
Southland Corp , said it raised the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel , effective Oct 16 The increase brings Cit go 's postings for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00 dlrs/barrel , while Light Louisiana SWeet is now priced at 19.35 dlrs . Citgo last changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9 . Reuter 
<TEST	21071	acq>
Hills , N.J . attorney Natalie Koether said it reduced its stake in CCX Inc common stock to 10,000 shares , or less than one pct of the company 's common stock outstanding , from a previous stake of about ten pct . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group said it sold 380,000 CCX common shares on October 15 at four dlrs a share . The group gave no reason for the sales . Reuter 
<TEST	21073	acq>
163,000 shares of Twin Disc Inc common stock , or 5.2 pct of the company 's common stock outstanding . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Orion Capital said the stock represents " a favorable investment opportunity at current market prices . " In open market transactions between August 21 and October 16 , an Orion Capital subsidiary bought 56,200 Twin Disc common shares at 21.06 dlrs to 22.43 dlrs a share . The entire 5.2 pct stake was purchased at a cost of 3.2 mln dlrs , Orion Capital told the SEC . Reuter 
<TEST	21076	crude>
Hernandez Grisanti said he foresaw market stability in the price of crude , despite growing tension in the Gulf augmented by the U.S. military attack on an Iranian oil platform . He told a news conference the market continues to be stable despite all the military action in the Gulf . Reuter 
<TEST	21078	acq>
board adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to protect the company from coercive takeover tactics and bids not fair to all sharholders . Under the plan , the board declared a dividend of one share purchase right for each of the Northeast common shares held of record as of November two , the company said . Initially , the rights are not exerciseable , rights certificates are not distributed , and the rights automatically trade with Northeast 's shares , the company said . However , 20 days following the acquisition of 20 pct or more of Northeast 's common shares shares or 20 days following the commencement of a tender offer for 30 pct or more of Northeast 's shares , the rights will become exerciseable and separate rights certificates will be distributed , the company said . The rights will entitle holders of Northeast 's common shares to purchase additional shares at an exercise price of 60 dlrs a share , the company said . The company said that in the event of certain triggering events described in the rights plan , holders of the rights , other than an acquiring person , will be entitled to acquire Northeast 's common shares having a market value of twice the then-current exercise price of the rights . Also , in the event Northeast enters into certain business combination transactions , holders of the rights will be provided a right to acquire equity securities of the acquiring entity having a market value of twice the then-current exercise price of the rights , the company said . Northeast said it will be entitled to redeem the rights at one cent per right until the occurence of certain events . Reuter 
<TEST	21093	acq>
an offer to enter into negotiations for <Intercep Investment Corp> to acquire a controlling interest through a tender offer . The company said " The negotiations would determine the terms under which the CCR board of directors could support the INTERCEP tender offer . " It gave no further details . Reuter 
<TEST	21097	acq>
holding in stockbrokers Morgan Grenfell Group Plc <M GFL.L> was not up for sale . The insurance broker issued a statement in reply to recent press speculation which it said was in part " inaccurate and undesirable . " " Willis Faber has not received any offers for its stake in Morgan Grenfell , " it said , adding that an offer would have to be considered on its merits . " Willis Faber 's stake in Morgan Grenfell has been a very successful investment , " it said . Reuter 
<TEST	21122	money-fx>
said the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) industrial countries should respect pledges on monetary policy made in the February Louvre accord on currency stability . " We have to strengthen the cooperation between the seven major industrial countries and remind ourselves of the pledges we made at the Lou v re , " he told journalists . " They were not simply pledges to maintain currency stability , but also to conduct a certain type of economic and monetary policy , " he added . Reuter 
<TEST	21123	grain>
next year 's grain production targets indicate that the Soviets are estimating this year 's grain crop at 205 to 213 mln tonnes , Agriculture Department analysts said . USDA is projecting the Soviet crop at 210 mln tonnes , but some earlier estimates from Soviet officials were that the 1987 grain crop could match the 1978 record of 237 mln tonnes . Moscow outlined its economic targets for 1988 on Monday , putting the grain harvest goal at 235 mln tonnes . An analyst of Soviet agriculture at USDA noted that a recent article in Izvestia said Soviet grain production in 1988 is planned to be " 25 to 30 mln tonnes more than expected this year . " " This indicates that their own estimate is for a 205 to 213 mln tonne ( grain ) crop , " the analyst said . In calculating Moscow 's crop estimate , USDA used the 235 mln tonne production goal , as well as a 238 mln tonne figure published in a Soviet economic journal this month . USDA 's production estimate of 210 mln tonnes reflects a range of 207 to 212 mln tonnes , a USDA source said . Late season rains damaged Soviet crops , slowed harvest progress and lowered Soviet production , analysts said . While in the U.S. earlier this month , Soviet agriculture official Viktor Nikonov predicted that the grain crop would be as good or better than last year 's 210 mln tonne harvest . A member of Nikonov 's party commented that although 230 mln tonnes of grain were in the fields , harvest problems would bring the final crop down to around 210 mln tonnes . Reuter 
<TEST	21128	money-fx>
Manuel Johnson said the Louvre Accord is still healthy , but said the United States and West Germany must work out differences over their respective roles in fulfilling the accord . " The Louvre Accord has worked very well in terms of stabilizing exchange rates , " he said in response to a question during an American Stock Exchange conference here . He said exchange rates have been stable so far in 1987 as a result of the accord . Reuter 
<TEST	21129	acq>
definitive agreement to purchase PMS Consolidated , a privately owned manufacturer of colorants for the plastics industry . M.A. Hanna said the purchase , which is subject to certain conditions , is scheduled to close around the end of October . Hanna announced last August that it was in negotiaitons to purchase the company . Headquartered in Somerset , N.J. , PMS reported over 70 mln dlrs in revenues in its last fiscal year , which ended May 1987 . Reuter 
<TEST	21131	crude>
world markets helped limit and then reverse oil price gains that followed the U.S. Strike on an Iranian oil platform in the Gulf earlier on Monday , analysts said . December loading rose to 19.65 dlrs , up 45 cents before falling to around 19.05/15 later , unchanged from last Friday . " Fundamentals are awful , " said Philip Lambert , analyst with stockbrokers Kleinwort Grieveson , adding that total OPEC production in the first week of October could be above 18.5 mln bpd , little changed from September levels . Peter Nicol , analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank , said OPEC production could be about 18.5-19.0 mln in October . Reuter and International Energy Agency ( IEA ) estimates put OPEC September production at 18.5 mln bpd . The U.S. Attack was in retaliation of last Friday 's hit of a Kuwaiti oil products tanker flying the U.S. Flag , the Sea Isle City . It was struck by a missile , believed to be Iranian , in Kuwaiti waters , and was the first hit on a U.S. Flag commercial vessel in the seven year Iran/Iraq war . The U.S. Owned Liberian flag tanker Sungari was hit in the area on Thursday , also believed struck by an Iranian missile . Refiners were not significant purchasers of physical oil on Monday as a result increased Gulf tension following the U.S. Attack , analysts said . They said a closure of the Strait of Hormuz , through which around eight mln bpd passes , isnlikely because it is not in the interests of the U.S. Or Iran , they said . Any threat to oil supplies would stem from an increase in the number of tanker attacks as part of a widening of Gulf hostilities , analysts said . But they saw the U.S. Strike as a limited reply to Iranian missile attacks , with some describing it as responsible . Geoffrey Pyne , analyst at stockbrokers Phillips and D rew , said he was impressed by the sensible U.S. Response . " The U.S. Has thought carefully about what would correspond to Iranian agression . They have proved to the Iranians that any further action will be met with a like-for-like response . Today 's action by the U.S. Was not escalatory , " Pyne said . Kleinwort Grieveson 's Lambert said the U.S. Strike was " a responsible retaliation , " with the U.S. Apparently indicating to Iran that it could increase the severity of its attacksf Iran chose to raise the level of conflict . Chase Manhattan 's Nicol took a different view , however . He said he was unable to see what the U.S. Had achieved as Arab states such as Kuwait and Saudi Arabia , whose interests the U.S. Is supposedly defending , will feel less secure as a result of the U.S. Attack and fear some sort of Iranian retaliation . The initial upward market move this morning reflected a strong speculative reaction to rumours of a U.S. Attack which was thought at one stage to have been against Iranian missile launchers on the Faw Peninsula , close to Kuwait , analysts said . The later downtrend followed confirmation of a U.S. Navy attack on an Iranian oil platform by the U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinburger . Market operators were able to evaluate the situation in the Gulf on the basis of confirmed fact , and finding it less serious than first thought , took profits , taking prices lower , analysts and traders said . REUTER 
<TEST	21133	acq>
Inc said it acquired about 21 pct of the outstanding shares of Imnet Corp , a privately owned company that designs , makes and services proprietary image storage and retrieval systems . Terms were not disclosed . Reuter 
<TEST	21134	acq>
a shrimp packing plant in Ecuador for undisclosed terms . The company said the acquisition will result in a tripling of its Ecuadorian shrimp sales to about three mln pounds annually by 1988 . Reuter 
<TEST	21138	money-fx>
said the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) industrial countries should respect pledges on monetary policy made in the February Louvre accord on currency stability . " We have to strengthen the cooperation between the seven major industrial countries and remind ourselves of the pledges we made at the Lou v re , " he told journalists . " They were not simply pledges to maintain currency stability , but also to conduct a certain type of economic and monetary policy , " he added . Balladur 's comments came after U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said on Sunday that the U.S. Would have to re-examine the Louvre accords in the light of the rise in West German short-term interest rates . Balladur was one of the main architects of the Louvre accord and has invested considerable political capital in defending them . REUTER 
<TEST	21140	acq>
definitive agreement to sell its BancTEXAS Sulphur Springs affiliate to a group of local investors led by Gene Watson for a cash amount equal to book value at the time of the sale , subject to regulatory approvals . The unit had assets of 18.2 mln dlrs as of September 30 . BancTEXAS said it plans to concentrate on its primary market , the Dallas area . Reuter 
<TEST	21143	acq>
agreement in principle to buy Tank Cleaning Co , a privately-held company that cleans tank trailers , in exchange for about 1.3 mln shares or Allwaste common . Allwaste said that Tank Cleaning earned about one mln dlrs before taxes last year and had about 1.5 mln dlrs in pre-tax income for the nine months ended September 30 . Reuter 
<TEST	21149	crude	ship>
Monday 's U.S. Attack on an Iranian offshore oil site and vowed retaliation , Tehran radio reported . It quoted President Ali Khamenei as saying , " We will definitely retaliate and will not leave this American move unanswered . " A broadcast monitored in Nicosia said several civilian personnel on the Rashadat oil platforms in the Gulf east of Qatar were injured when U.S. Warships bombarded them this afternoon . It described damage as " severe . " Washington said four American frigates shelled and destroyed two Iranian platforms at the Rashadat ( formerly Rostam ) field at 1100 GMT on Monday in response to Friday 's missile attack on a U.S.-flag ship in Kuwaiti waters . The U.S. Said Iranians used the platforms for military pruposes and had fired on an American helicopter from the rigs earlier this month . Khamenei denied that the platforms had military gear or personnel and said the U.S. Attack lacked miltary value . " With this move Mr. Reagan has committed a big mistake and has definitely increased his problems REUTER 
<TEST	21152	grain>
to limit changes in county loan rate differentials starting with the 1988 crop as part of a budget deficit reduction package . The panel also approved measures that could trigger larger corn and wheat acreage reduction requirements , increase farmer-held reserve storage payments , reduce a potential milk support price cut , and require advance deficiency payments for producers of major crops . A proposal to require imported tropical oils be labeled on U.S. food products failed by a 10-8 vote . Reuter 
<TEST	21157	money-fx>
Manuel Johnson cautioned against seeking " quick-fix solutions " to persistent U.S. trade and federal budget deficits . In particular , he told an American Stock Exchange conference , a decline in the dollar below current levels would exacerbate financial market conditions . " Trying to artificially depress the dollar severely below current levels would exacerbate financial market conditions and lead to further potential for financial problems . " Nowhere , Johnson said , are Fed officials hearing that U.S. businesses cannot compete at current exchange rates . He acknowledged the U.S. trade deficit was persisting despite a decline in the dollar 's value of 40 to 50 pct in the past two years . But the deficit is improving in volume terms and will soon begin showing improvement . " The stage I think is being set for a healthy , constructive expansion without inflationary instability , " he said . Reuter 
<TEST	21187	trade>
charges that the trade bill before Congress contributed to the fall in stock prices on Wall Street . " That is utterly ridiculous , " the Texas Democrat told reporters . Treasury Secretary James Baker and other administration officials over the weekend pointed to the pending legislation which they brand too protectionist as a key factor in the record-setting drop . Reuter 
<TEST	21197	crude>
called to a private meeting on Monday for consultations following the United States attack on an Iranian oil platform . Meanwhile , a U.N. spokesman said that as far as he knew a report to the council and Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar on the action had not been received from the Americans . In Washington , President Reagan said the United Nations was being informed of the attack under the provision of the U.N. Charter regarding notification of actions taken under the right of self-defense . The U.N. spokesman , Francois Giuliani , said Perez de Cuellar had no comment on the attack , taken in response to Iranian action against an American-owned tanker last week , but was trying to find out " what actually happened . " Calls to Iran 's U.N. commission elicited no response . Reuter 
<TEST	21201	acq>
of the U.K. Merchant bank <Baring Brothers and Co Ltd> , said it has raised 61 mln European Currency Units ( ECUs ) which will be invested in management buy-outs and development capital opportunities in the U.K. And continental Europe . The funds were raised through BCI 's first such fund the Baring Euaring European Capital Trust from investors in nine European countries . It expects to raise another 40 mln ECUs soon through a French fund and a fund for U.S. Investors. BCI was set up last year by Baring Brothers to advise buy-out and development capital investors . BCI said the new fund is structured as a Guernsey-based unit trust , which will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange . It will be advised by BCI and managed by a company owned jointly by Barings and the management of BCI. Individual investments are expected to range between one and 10 mln ECUs and are likely to be concentrated in the U.K. , Germany and France . BCI said its aims are to invest in established companies , principally family companies with succession-issues and corporate spin-offs . REUTER 
<TEST	21202	money-fx>
rush to paper over the deep cracks that have appeared in the Louvre accord on currency stability to prevent a dollar free-fall and to calm turmoil in world capital markets , economists and currency traders said . " I do n't think the Louvre is dead because if it breaks up in an acrimonious way , the potential outcome is a rout of the dollar , higher interest rates and collapsing stock markets . It 's in the Group of Seven 's interest to calm things down , " said Douglas Madison , corporate trader at BankAmerica Corp. In a weekend television interview , U.S. Treasury secretary James Baker sharply criticised a recent rise in West German money market rates and said the eight month-old Louvre pact to foster exchange rate stability needs to be reviewed . His comments rocked the currency markets and helped send the already-fragile U.S. and overseas stock markets into a tailspin . The dollar lost more than two pfennigs in the U.S. to about 1.7740/50 marks and about one yen to 141.25/35 yen . The Dow Jones Industrial Average slumped more than 200 points at one stage and U.S. Treasury bonds dropped about 1-3/4 points . Reuter 
<TEST	21210	acq>
not oppose the slate of nominees proposed for election to the board by the committee led by Entertainment Marketing Inc <EM> and the <Oppenheimer-Palmieri Fund , LP.> Crazy Eddie said its board is not endorsing , but will simply refrain from opposing , the EMI-Palmieri nominees . The board also said it will ask representatives of the Committee to Restore Shareholder value to begin acquainting themselves with the business and affairs of the company as promptly as possible . To that end , the committee 's representatives will be invited in advance of the annual meeting to examine the company 's financial records , to monitor its operations and to join company officers in meetings with the company 's suppliers , bankers and key personnel , Crazy Eddie said . The board said that to continue to oppose the EMI-Palmieri group would only increase the expenses of the company , create further uncertainty among its suppliers , customers and employees , and result in deterioration of moral among company personnel . A further release from the company will follow , it said . Reuter 
<TEST	21216	ship	crude>
America 's attack on an Iranian oil platform on Monday had involved the United States in full-scale war and Iran would avenge it with a " crushing blow . " " The United States has entered a swamp from which it can in no way get out safely , " the Iranian news agency IRNA quoted the head of Iran 's war information headquarters as saying . The official , Kamal Kharrazi , said Washington had now become involved in what he called a full-fledged war with Iran . It was the first official Iranian reaction to the attack by four U.S. Navy destroyers on the Reshadat oil platform . Reuter 
<TEST	21228	acq>
he reduced his stake in Caesars World Inc common stock to 3,878,700 shares , or 16 pct of the company 's common stock outstanding , from about 17.4 pct . Sosnoff , who tried unsuccessfully to acquire Caesars World earlier this year , said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that he sold 338,975 Caesars World shares on October 15 and 16 at 22.50 dlrs to 25.25 dlrs a share . Sosnoff said he holds his Caesars World stock " primarily for investment purposes " . He also said he reserves the right to alter his intentions at any time . Reuter 
<TEST	21243	grain	wheat	corn>
expected to consider proposals that would limit adjustments in county loan rate differentials which trigger larger corn and wheat acreage reduction requirements , Senate staff said . A budget-saving proposal drafted by chairman Patrick Leahy ( D- V t ) would limit adjustments in county loan rate differentials to no more than one pct per year from the national average loan rate , starting with 1988 crops . The plan also would allow the Agriculture Secretary to increase the unpaid acreage reduction requirement for corn by " an appropriate amount to generate savings " if projected corn stocks exceeded 6.0 billion bushels . Leahy 's proposal would also allow a larger 1988 wheat set aside if projected stocks surpassed 1.9 billion bushels . Reuter 
<TEST	21251	acq>
Studios Inc signed a definitive agreement to merge in a stock swap value at 115 mln dlrs , based on October 16 closing prices . The company said the agreement calls for the holders of common stock in Hal Roach to exchange their shares on a one-for-one basis for shares in the combined company . It said holders of Robert Halmi common will exchange their shares on a two-and-one-half-for-one basis for shares in the combined company . The company said the swap will be tax-free . The company also said <Qintex Ltd> , a 35 pct owner of Hal Roach common stock , has agreed to use the company as the exclusive vehicle for its U.S. media and entertainment investments , the company said . The company said Qintex 's U.S. subsidiary also agreed to supply a minimum 70 mln dlrs line of credit to the new company , which shall be used , with Qintex approval , for financing new HRI products . The company said that under the definitive agreement , Qintex 's U.S. division will have the right to purchase up to 51 pct of the new company in the open market , in private transactions or by tender offer , but will not be purchasing warrants to bring its ownership to 51 pct of the new company . If Qintex 's U.S. subsidiary has not achieved this ownership within one year after the completion of the merger , the subsidiary will have the right two years thereafter to request that HRI commence a rights offering to HRI stockholders , the company said . Regarding the potential rights offering , Qintex 's U.S. subsidiary will act as standby purchaser , the company said . The transaction is subject to the approval of both company 's shareholders , the receipt of certain tax approvals , and the continued employement of Robert Halmi Sr and Robert Halmi Jr , the company said . Robert Halmi Sr , who is currently chairman and chief executive officer of Robert Halmi Inc , will be chairman of the new company and David Evans , current president and chief operating officer of Hal Roach , will become chief executive , the company said . Reuter 
<TEST	21253	acq>
completed its previously-announced acquisition of Admin EDP Pty Ltd for cash and a small amount of stock . Admin EDP , of Sydney , Australia , is a full-service software sales and services firm . Reuter 
<TEST	21261	acq>
agreed to buy Toronto-based McGuinness Distillers Ltd from Heublein Inc for about 45 mln dlrs in a move which Corby expects to add significantly to domestic earnings . Heublin is a subsidiary of Grand Metropolitan PLC ( GMHL.L ) . Corby said McGuinness will remain a seperate business unit with a seperate sales force . McGuinness markets liquers , brandy , and other liquors and has entered the fast-expanding wine cooler market , Corby said . Corby said it expects to benefit from McGuinness 's succesfull introduction of schnapps and coolers and its strength in traditional market sectors . Heublein said the sale does not include McGuinness 's Calona Wines Ltd , a Canadian wine company . Heublein said it is will still be represented in Canada by Gilbey Canada Inc. reuter Reuter 
<TEST	21267	crude>
of USX Corp , said it lowered posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts with an effective date of October 16 . The increase brings posted prices for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour to 19.00 dlrs a barrel each . South Louisiana Sweet was increased to 19.35 dlrs a barrel . Several indepndent oil companies such as Permian Corp and Coastal Corp <CGP> said they had moved prices up effective last Friday the day Sun Co <SUN> announced a 50 cts a barrel increase to 19.00 dlrs a barrel . Reuter 
<TEST	21277	money-fx>
which has maintained an uneasy calm in currency markets since last February , appeared in serious danger today as a transatlantic dispute over West German interest rates came to the boil , foreign exchange dealers said . But as the dollar slid against the mark and world stock and bond markets plunged , officials in the major industrial countries played down the dispute as a bilateral problem between the United States and West Germany and insisted that the currency pact was still alive . U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker sparked the market fears when he attacked the rise in West German short-term interest rates . "That 's not in keeping with the spirit of what we agreed to as recently as earlier this month in Washington , " Baker said in a U.S. Television interview on Sunday . He was referring to the meetings of Finance Ministers from the Group of Seven ( G 7 ) leading industrial nations which reaffirmed the pact . Under the Louvre Accord West Germany and Japan , who both have large trade surpluses , pledged to boost their economic growth to take in more exports from the U.S. , While the U.S. Agreed to stop talking the dollar down . However , Baker said on Saturday that while the Louvre agreement was still operative , the West German interest rate move would force the U.S. To re-examine the accord . " The foreign exchange market has been told by Baker that he 's going to hammer Germany He has just declared all bets are off in terms of currency cooperation , " Chris Johns , currency analyst at UBS-Phillips and Drew in London said . But a Bank of Japan official took a much more sanguine view , telling Reuters that " the exchange market is apparently reacting too much , and anyone who sold the dollar on the Baker comment will regret it later on . " French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur , who hosted the Louvre meeting , was the only one of the G7 Finance Ministers to respond directly to Baker 's remarks . He called for " a faithful and firm adherence by all the major industrial countries to the Louvre accords in both their letter and spirit . " Neither the West German Finance Ministry nor the British Treasury commented on the row . But a Japanese Finance Ministry official said that despite U.S. Frustration over higher interest rates abroad , "this does not represent its readiness to scrap the basic framework of the Louvre Accord . " In Frankfurt F. Wilhelm Christians , joint chief executive of West Germany 's largest bank , Deutsche Bank , said that following recent meetings with Baker , he believed that the U.S. Was still committed to the accord . In a move which the market interpreted as a possible gesture of reconciliation , the Bundesbank added short-term liquidity to the West German money market at 3.80 pct on Monday , down from the 3.85 pct level at which it injected medium-term liquidity last week . The Bank of France also stepped into the French money market to hold down rates , injecting short-term liquidity at 7-3/4 pct after rates rose close to eight pct . Reuter 
<TEST	21278	acq>
an agreement in principal covering the acquisition of the company by privately-held Calmark Financial Corp. The agreement calls for Northview to make a self-tender offer for all of its outstanding stock at a price of 22 dlrs per share in cash . Calmark , headquartered in Los Angeles , develops , manages and syndicates real estate , Northview also said . Reuter 
<TEST	21285	interest>
government securities market to arrange three-day system repurchase agreements , a spokesman for the New York Fed said . Federal funds were trading at 7-5/8 pct at the time of the direct injection of temporary reserves , dealers said . Reuter 
<TEST	21287	acq>
Industries Inc <BRSS.O> said it acquired a 9.8 pct stake in Media General Inc Class A common stock and may seek seek contorl of the company . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , the group said it holds 2,711,000 shares of Media General commons stock purchased at a total cost of about 108.3 mln dlrs . In addition to the possible bid for control , the group said it may purchase additional Media General shares or possibly seek one or more seats on the company 's board of directors through a proxy contest . A bid for control of Media General would be subject to " a recapitalization or possible restructuring and to possible changes in the charter documents and by-laws of the company ," it said . The group said it had held discussions with third parties to gauge their interest in joining the shareholder group , but no agreements were reached . Talks with third parties are expected to continue , the shareholder group said . Between October 13 and 16 , Barris Industries bought 1,322,200 shares of Media General Class A common stock 42.50 dlrs to 45.50 dlrs a share in open market transactions , and another 12,000 shares privately . Reuter 
<TEST	21291	acq>
Associates Inc> said they reached an agreement calling for S-K-I to buy Goldmine 's California ski area for approximately 10 mln dlrs . S-K-I , which owns Killlington and Mount Snow ski resorts in Vt. , said the California ski area is located in the San Bernardino mountains . The company said it plans to invest approximately 10 mln dlrs into the ski area in the next few years . Reuter 
<TEST	21292	acq>
of Allegis Corp , said it will hold a press conference on October 21 near San Francisco to discuss the pending sale of the 61-hotel chain by Allegis . Allegis has said that it plans to sell Westin buyt has not announced that a deal has been set . Reuter 
<TEST	21297	acq>
has acquired two shopping centers for a total price of 18.4 mln dlrs . The company said it bought Best Plaza Shopping Center in Pleasanton , Calif. , For 12 mln dlrs and Bristol Place Shopping Center in Santa Ana , Calif. , for 16.4 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	21301	acq>
partnership led by Shamrock Holdings Inc , said it completed its sale of Central Soya Co Inc to Ferruzzi Agricola Finanziaria of Italy . Under terms of the sale agreement , which was announced on September 15 , Ferruzzi acquired all the equity in Central Soya and assumed subordinated term debt of about 195 mln dlrs in a transaction valued at about 370 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	21303	money-fx>
commitment to international monetary cooperation which was renewed in Washington last month will continue , a Finance Ministry spokesman quoted Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg as saying . Stoltenberg 's statement was a reaction to criticism of rises in West German interest rates voiced by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker over the weekend . Reuter 
<TEST	21318	acq>
main property-liability insurance operation of Transamerica Corp , said it signed a definitive agreement to acquire a newly-formed insurer , Commerical Risk Underwriters Insurance Co , from <Clarendon Group Ltd> . Transamerica said the unit , which will be renamed Transamerica Reinsurance Co , will initially be capitalized at about 185 mln dlrs . Transamerica said the acquisition represents its first move into specialty treaty reinsurance . The company said about 28 members of Clarendon will join Transamerica as part of the acquisition , which is expected to close in November and is subject to various regulatory approvals . Reuter 
<TEST	21319	acq>
Kong-based Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) Ltd , said it acquired 969,515 shares of Triton Oil Corp common stock , or 5.4 pct of the company 's common stock outstanding . Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) , which is controlled by Brierley Investments Ltd <BRYW.WE> and which has applied with U.S. antitrust regulators to buy up to 50 pct of Triton 's common stock , said the current 5.4 pct stake was acquired for investment purposes . The company said it informed Triton of its present " good faith intention " to buy more than 15 mln dlrs worth of Triton stock . It said it also told Triton it " may depending on market conditions acquire 50 pct or more and possibly 100 pct of the voting securities of ( Triton ) . " It said it received clearance to buy up to 50 pct of the stock on September 11 . Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) reported it bought 250,000 shares of Triton common stock on October 8 at 22.50 dlrs a share . Reuter 
<TEST	21333	acq>
said it filed a suit charging Bregman Partners and its affiliates unlawfully planned to acquire control of the company . In a suit filed in U.S. District Court , International Multifoods said Bregman Partners and its affiliates , who reportedly hold 7.4 pct of the company 's shares , tried to induce Multifood 's management to join them in an effort to take the company private and give controlling interest to Bregman Partners . Bregman Partners include the interests of the Belzberg families of Canada . The complaint also discloses that on each occasion , Multifoods management rejected the group 's overtures . Multifoods is asking Bregman 's group to divest its shares in open market sales in a manner not to further disrupt the market place , according to the suit . The suit seeks compensatory and punitive damages in an amount to be determined . In addition , Multifoods is seeking to stop Bregman Partners from acquiring any more stock , or voting the shares it reportedly owns , the suit said . According to Multifoods , the actions proposed by Bregman Partners would prevent shareholders from realizing the full benefits of the company 's restructuring . In the past three years , Multifoods has substantially altered its domestic business mix by divesting its U.S. consumere foods operations and emphasizing growth in selected segments of the U.S. foodservice industry . Reuter 
<TEST	21339	money-fx>
remained committed to the Louvre Accord to stabilise currencies , which was struck by leading western democracies in Paris last February . Over the weekend , U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker criticised recent rises in West German short-term interest rates and said such developments were not in the spirit of the Louvre pact . He said the agreement may have to be re-examined . The sources said the West German interest rate rises had to be seen in the context of interest rate developments worldwide . Reuter 
<TEST	21342	interest>
William Seidman said he would be concerned about the impact on banks of a further sharp rise in interest rates . However , Seidman , attending the American Bankers Association convention , said he did not expect rates to rise much higher and said the outlook for the U.S. economy and for banking was sound . " The potential for greater interest rate rises gives us concern . We see nothing right now in the outlook that causes us to believe rates are going much higher or that the economy is not sound , " Seidman told a news conference . Reuter 
<TEST	21343	money-fx>
the government securities market to supply reserves to the banking system via system repurchase agreements , economists said . Most economists said the Fed would execute three-day system repurchases to meet a substantial need to add reserves in the current maintenance period , although some said a more aggressive add via overnight system repos was possible . Federal funds opened at 7-5/8 pct and remained at that level late this morning , compared with an average effective rate of 7.55 pct Friday . Reuter 
<TEST	21357	acq>
Hong Kong-based investment firm leading a group holding 19.1 pct of Calmat Co 's common stock , said it intends to submit to Calmat a proposal for a possible business combination . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) did not disclose details of the proposal , but said it would be delivered to Calmat in the near future . Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) " does not intend to remain a passive investor " in Calmat , the firm told the SEC . In its SEC filing , Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) said its president of North American operations Ronald Langley met with Calmat officials on October 14 to discuss an acquisition of the company at a premium over the market price of Calmat stock . Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) added it is considering launching a tender offer for Calmat stock or making a merger proposal to the company , but said it has not decided whether it will pursue a Calmat acquisition on a non-negotiated basis . Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) , which currently holds 5.83 mln Calmat common shares , said it is also evaluating the company 's recently adopted shareholder rights plan and its potential effect on Calmat and on possible acquisition proposals made to the company . Between October 2 and 14 , Industrial Equity ( Pacific ) bought 918,900 shares of Calmat common stock at 33 dlrs to 37.55 dlrs a share , or a total of about 33.8 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	21358	acq>
Calif , has been purchased by Oregon Steel Mills for 16 mln dlrs , the privately owned Portland company said . The transaction was approved by the U.S. bankruptcy judge in Denver who is hearing Kaiser Steel 's Chapter 11 reorganization case . James Mccaughey , former vice president of sales for Kaiser , has been named general manager for the plant , which will be called Napa Pipe Corp , Oregon Steel said . Reuter 
<TEST	21363	crude>
16 it had raised posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel . The increase brings West Texas Intermediate to 9.00 dlrs a barrel and West Texas Sour to 18.10 dlrs a barrel . Sun Co <SUN> announced that it would make a 50 cts a barrel increase late Friday bringing WTI to 19.00 dlrs a barrel and traders said that other oil companies could be expected to increase prices . Reuter 
<TEST	21368	grain>
targets for 1988 on Monday , stressing the need to improve standards in the country 's sluggish engineering industry . Planning chief Nikolai Talyzin told the Supreme Soviet industrial output should rise by 4.5 pct in 1988 , up from a planned 4.4 pct in 1987 . It rose 3.6 pct in Jan-Sept 1987 . Talyzin said national income , the nearest Soviet equivalent to gross national product , should rise by 4.3 pct against a planned 4.1 pct this year . Gross national product measures the output of a country 's goods and services . He said the Kremlin planned to produce 235 mln tonnes of grain in 1988 versus a planned 232 mln this year . Moscow produced 210 mln tonnes in 1986 . Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev has described machine-builing as a sector whose rapid modernization is essential if the Soviet Union is to compete effectively on world markets . " Certain difficulties have arisen this year in the machine-building industry . The economy is not receiving a considerable amount of the equipment that it requires , " said Talyzin , who heads the state planning committee GOSPLAN . Soviet data show the machine-building industry , which makes machine tools , instruments and other engineering goods , increased output by 3.3 pct in the first nine months of 1987 compared with the same period last year . However , this was far below the 7.3 pct increase planned for the industry for the whole of 1988 . Talyzin said the ruling Politburo had concluded at a recent meeting that an improvement in economic performance depended to a large extent on conserving resources better . " L arge-scale measures are planned to save resource s , " he said . Finance Minister Boris Gostev told the Supreme Soviet that defense spending in 1988 would total 32 billion dlrs , the same figure as was announced last year . Western governments view official Soviet estimates for defense spending as highly understated , but say the real figure is hard to calculate because Soviet military industries are intertwined with the civilian economy . Talyzin said the Kremlin also decided to increase spending next year on medical services , education , pensions and social insurance schemes . Reuter 
<TEST	21369	crude>
denounced a U.S. Attack on an Iranian oil-drilling platform in the Gulf on Monday as military adventurism and said it would bring no dividends to the Reagan administration . Tass commentator Mikhail Krutikhin said the administration had embarked on an adventurist path in order to deflect attention from the scandal in which the United States sold arms to Iran and the profits were diverted to Nicaraguan rebels . " The confrontation is a fact now . What is obvious is that the latest military adventure will not bring political dividends to the American administration , " Krutikhin said . Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze abruptly left a parliamentary session earlier on Monday , sparking diplomatic speculation that they were concerned with an urgent matter of foreign affairs . Soviet officials have previously criticized the United States for sending naval forces into the Gulf , saying their presence serves to increase tension . Moscow is officially neutral in the war between Iran and Iraq. It is a major arms supplier to Iraq but has also sought broader contacts with Iran in the last year . Krutikhin said " The United States has undertaken an act of armed aggression against Iran , the probability of which has long been spoken of by Washington officials . " Reuter 
<TEST	21371	ship>
Union , which regulates communications worldwide , decided at the end of a five-week conference to allow mobile phone systems to be linked with satell ites , telecommunications officials said . Until now , car phones have been linked with land stations and have been limited mainly to urban areas . The new ruling will make it easier for calls to be made from remote regions . The meeting , which finished over the weekend , also decided to allow a " radio determination satellite system , " which would enable fleet owners to trace to within about 15 metres the movements of their lorries or cars or ships around the world . Reuter 
<TEST	21376	acq>
begin a cash tender offer by October 26 to acquire all of IDC 's outstanding common for 16 dlrs a share . The company said the offer is being made under a definitive agreement reached with the new company , IDC Acquisition Corp , formed by Apollo Partners Ltd and investment clients of <Equitable Capital Management Inc> . The agreement calls for the acquisition of IDC for about 62.4 mln dlrs . IDC Acquisition will also tender for all of IDC 's outstanding nine pct convertible subordinated debentures . IDC said the merger agreement also provides for payment of an equivalent amount in respect of employee stock options to be cancelled in the merger . As part of the transaction , the company said , it granted IDC Acquisition an option to acquire up to 20 pct of the company 's outstanding shares for 16 dlrs per share . It said the planned tender offer is subject to several conditions , including the tendering of over 50 pct of the company 's outstanding stock . MIM Holdings Ltd <MIMA.S> , a substantial shareholder in IDC , has agreed it will not buy any additional IDC shares until February seven and has granted IDC Acquisition a right of first refusal on any IDC shares it sells during that period , the company said . It said Apollo Partners was recently organized by three former senior Viacom Inc <VIA> executives , Terrence A. Elkes , George C. Catell and Kenneth F. Gorman . Reuter 
<TEST	21382	acq>
a second major step in the reorganization and restructuring of the company . To implement the plan of sharpening its strategic focus on consumer goods and services , the company will give serious consideration to the sale of its Pneumo Abex , its aerospace and defense company , if it can realize a price which will return maximum value to shareholders . In 1986 , Pneumo Abex had operating income of 118.1 mln dlrs on sales of 900.5 mln dlrs . IC said it will use the proceeds of any asset sale to invest in new high-return businesses in the consumer goods and services field . The company said it authorized a program to repurchase between 500 mln dlrs and 1.0 billion dlrs of IC 's common stock from time to time when conditions warrant . It also said it will begin an immediate cost-reduction program to cust annual operating expenses by 50 mln dlrs . An IC spokesman said the cost-reduction program involved " across-the-board " cuts rather than specific about targeted areas . IC 's board earlier approved a plan to spin off the company 's Illinois Central Gulf Railroad to shareholders . The company 's other major subsidiaries are Pet Inc , Pepsi-Cola General Bottlers , Midas International Corp and Hussmann Corp. Reuter 
<TEST	21387	acq>
committee of its board is continuing talks with <TXL Corp> on the terms of TXL 's offer to acquire Arnox at 10 dlrs per share . It said TXL has arranged preliminary financing . Reuter 
<TEST	21391	trade>
Negotiations Michael Duffy said his country and Third World commodity producers have formed an effective lobby group against farm export subsidies and market access restrictions . Duffy told a press conference the Cairns Group of 14 major agricultural producers , to which Australia and Thailand belong , has emerged as an important third force in any multilateral trade talks . " There 's no doubt that the Cairns Group is being seen as a third force to be reckoned with both inside the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and in other international trade negotiations , " he said . Duffy , here on a three-day visit after talks in the United States , The European Community ( EC ) and Latin America , said considerable progress has been made by the group towards fighting costly protectionist policies pursued by developed countries . The minister said the EC Commission 's new farm trade paper will recognise the heavy financial burdens imposed by its Common Agricultural Policy and its future expansion . He said the Reagan Administration has also displayed a determination to resist the currently strong protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress . Reuter 
<TEST	21392	trade>
in July to 674 mln dlrs from 454 mln in June but fell from 1.22 billion in July last year , the State Statistics Institute said . The cumulative trade position in July showed a 1.85 billion dlr deficit after 1.33 billion in June and 1.89 billion a year earlier , with exports at 4.91 billion and imports , both FOB , at 6.76 billion . The government aims to narrow the current account deficit for the whole of 1987 to 975 mln dlrs , compared with 1.52 billion last year , up from 1.01 billion in 1985 . Bankers forecast the 1987 deficit will exceed one billion dlrs , because a spurt in exports is expected to slow considerably in the last five months following a massive drawdown of inventories . REUTER 
<TEST	21393	acq>
about 8,857,807 Interstate Bakeries Corp shares in response to its tender offer for up to 8,0 53,181 shares that expired October 16 , and it will purchase about 90.9 pct of the shares tendered . It said a final proration factor should be announced and payment for shares start October 26 . IBC is made up of Interstate management , First Boston Inc <FBC> and George K. Braun and Co. Reuter 
<TEST	21394	acq>
Napa , Calif. , has been purchased by Oregon Steel Mills for 16 mln dlrs , the privately owned Portland company said . The transaction was approved by the U.S. bankruptcy judge in Denver who is hearing Kaiser Steel 's Chapter 11 reorganization case . James Mccaughey , former vice president of sales for Kaiser , has been named general manager for the plant which will be called Napa Pipe Corp , Oregon Steel said . Reuter 
<TEST	21401	acq>
to start mailing proxy materials to stockholders in connection to a November 16 special meeting at which holders will be asked to consider a previously announced agreement with Greyhound Corp <G> . Under the agreement , Greyhound will acquire , in a merger , three of the company 's foodservice operations Dobbs International Services , Dobbs Houses and Carson international . If the transaction is approved , Carsons said its stockholders will receive 30 dlrs cash and one share of common in the new Carson Pirie Scott and Co for each share held . Reuter 
<TEST	21404	acq>
shares of Armel Inc 's <AML> common stock were tendered to and accepted for payment by Woolworth , under the terms of the previosuly announced cash tender offer which expired at 2400 midnight EDT on October 16 . In addition , Woolowrth said 137,367 Armel shares have been tendered subject to guaranteed delivery . Woolowrth said as a result of the tender offer and options which it has exercised to purchase Armel stock , FWW Acquisiton Corp , a Woolworth unit , today expects to own about 91.75 pct of Amrel 's outstanding stock . Woolworth said the percent it owns does not include 583,650 Class A shares of Armel , which were tendered or will be purchased pursuant to the options . As previuosly announced , FWW will now proceed with the cash merger in which all shares of Armel , other than those held by FWW or Woolworth , will be entitled to receive 7.75 dlrs per share . Woolworth said it expects to consummate the deal later this year . Armel is a specialty retailer of a broad line of athletic and leisure footwear , accessories and other sportswear . Reuter 
<TEST	21408	acq>
<PROSZ.O> said it acquired 527,000 shares of Brinkmann Instruments Inc common stock , or 14.3 pct of the scientific instrument maker 's common stock outstanding . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Prospect Group said it bought the 527,000 Brinkmann shares in open market transactions between August 12 and October 16 at 9.62 dlrs to 11.50 dlrs , or a total of 5.69 mln dlrs . Prospect Group said it bought the stock " to establish a significant minority equity interest in the company ," but does not intend to seek control of Brinkmann at the present time . Prospect Group said it will review its investment objectives regarding Brinkmann as warranted by market conditions , the company 's performance , and other factors including discussions with Brinkmann management . Reuter 
<TEST	21411	acq>
Warner Communications Investors Inc unit acquired stock and warrants representing 416,668 shares of Berkey Inc common stock , or the equivalent of 8.2 pct of the company 's common stock outstanding . In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Warner Communications Investors said it paid about one mln dlrs to Berkey on September 23 to acquire 104,167 shares of Berkey Series B convertible preferred stock . The preferred stock is convertible into 208,334 Berkey common shares , and warrants to buy another 208,334 shares . Warner Communications and its subsidiary said the Berkey stock is held as an investment which they will review and evaluate from time to time . Reuter 
<TEST	21417	acq	crude>
the feasibility of spinning off nonutility subsidiaries to shareholders . The company said its propane disution , natural gas spot marketing , data processing , oil and natural gas exploration and production , natural gas gathering and underground pipe replacement businesses had sales for the year ended September 30 of about 74 mln dlrs , or about 25 pct of total company sales . NUI 's major subsidiary is utility Elizabethtown Gas . Reuter 
<TEST	21419	acq>
management and financial advisor Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc to investigate possible alternatives to the tender offer of Asher Edelman 's TLX Partners for all Telex shares that may include seeking other purchasers for Telex . The company said the board at an October 16 meeting decided to defer until a board meeting later this week a recommendation on the Edelman offer and said the board expects to make a recommendation by October 23 . Reuter 
<TEST	20014	money-fx	interest>
matching falls around Europe may have been overdone , but the mood on financial markets is precarious , Swiss securities analysts and economists said . Panic selling took Swiss shares down six pct at the opening on enormous volume , triggered by the slide on Wall Street and the threat of renewed currency instability . " I have never experienced anything like this , and I 've been in the business for 20 years ," said Bernhard Wyttenbach , head of European research at Union Bank of Switzerland . The analysts blamed the sell-off in Europe on U.S. Monetary authorities . This weekend , U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker publicly voiced his displeasure with West German monetary policy . He said the eight-month-old Louvre accord to stabilise currencies was still working , but added "On the other hand , we will not sit back and watch surplus countries jack up interest rates and squeeze growth on the expectation that the United States will raise rates . " Hans Peter Ast of Societe Generale Alsacienne ( Sogenal ) in Zurich said " The situation is very dangerous . Statements by the U.S. Authorities have fuelled anxiety about interest rates . " Herbert Fritschi , director of Zurich Cantonal Bank 's financial research department , called the sell-off " overdone , " but warned that the situation could worsen unless central banks loosen their monetary policy . " I think the trend toward higher interest rates is over , " he said . " The Federal Reserve and the Bundesbank have to step in with an easy money policy , or else there is going to be an economic catastrophe . They have to act quickl y . " Wyttenbach said the " Black Monday " sell-off was clearly exaggerated , with Swiss Reinsurance Co participation certificates falling 20 pct in value at one point . But Wyttenbach said he did not believe that a correction would come soon . First , the bad news will reach small investors only in time for tomorrow 's market , when there could be another , smaller selling wave . "As soon as the dollar stabilises and that 's the key then we 'll get a strong movement upward , " Wyttenbach said . But that may not come soon . "People are simply worried that in America , where the market has now fallen by 18 pct since August , the bull market is over , " he said . "People are afraid that we 'll have a recession in 1988 . " Baker was wrong to blame the West Germans for the current problems and the weak dollar , Wyttenbach said . " We do not have a mark problem , we have a dollar problem , " he added , but said the biggest culprit was the new chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board , Alan Greens pan . Wyttenbach recalled that Greenspan had suggested that the dollar might be too high in the medium term and that interest rates might have to rise . "As a central banker he should n't do that , " Wyttenbach said . " There is a danger that we will fall back into the 1970 s , " he said . " We have a real crisis of confidence in Greens pan . I would much rather have a Volcker . " Paul Volcker retired as Fed chairman on August 11 . Cantonal Bank 's Fritschi said " I 'm relatively optimistic because the situation looks too bad . The Fed certainly has to intervene . " He said he did not expect the Swiss National Bank to take any significant steps , adding that the focus of attention remains on the United States . " The panic started in New York , it has to end there . " The Cantonal Bank sent an advisory to customers suggesting they not sell into a panicked market , but wait a while before deciding what to do . REUTER 
<TEST	21429	acq>
said the management group led by chairman Martin Brody and president Max Pine through October 16 had received 1,796,727 Class A and 1,766,091 Class B shares in response to its tender offer for all shares at 18 dlrs each , giving thema majority of each class of shares . The company said the tender has been extended until November 6 . Reuter 
<TEST	21443	ship	crude>
of its oil platforms in the southern Gulf on Monday afternoon , the Iranian news agency IRNA reported . IRNA , received in Nicosia , said an informed source at the Iranian oil ministry identified the two platforms as Resalat and Reshadat , about 60 miles from Iran 's Lavan island oil storage site . Regional shipping sources earlier said three Iranian offshore oil sites at Sassan , Rostam and Rakhsh had been attacked at 7.00 A.M. ( 0300 GMT ) on Monday by unidentified aircraft . In Washington , U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger said four U.S. Destroyers attacked and destroyed an Iranian oil platform about 120 miles east of Bahrain . REUTER 
<TEST	21454	acq>
completed the sale of Cental Soya Co Inc to Ferruzzi Agricola Finanziaria the holding company for the Ferruzzi group of Ravenna , Italy . Shamrock Capital is a limited partnership led by Shamrock Holdings Inc , the Roy E. Disney family company . Under the agreement announced last month , Ferruzzi acquired all the equity and assumed subordinated term debt of about 195 mln dlrs in a transaction valued at about 370 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	21459	ship	crude>
an Iranian oil platform on Monday in retaliation for Friday 's Iranian attack damaging a U.S.-flagged ship , U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said . When asked how much was left of the oil plat form , Weinberger said , " Nothing . " " There was no Iranian reaction , " he said . " We consider this matter is now closed . " Weinberger said four U.S. destroyers attacked the platform about 120 miles east of Bahrain in the central Gulf with fire at 0700 EDT , Weinberger said . " We chose a platform used by the Iranians to interfere with and be a source of potential attack on convoys , " Weinberger said at a Pentagon briefing . " We know it has been used indeed , to not only launch small boat attacks on shipping but to fire on U.S. helicopters " It 's removal will contribute significantly to the safety of U.S. forces in the future , " Weinberger said of the U.S. Navy 's operation to escort oil tankers through the Gulf . " We do not seek further confrontation with Iran but we will be prepared to meet any escalation of military actions by Iran with stronger countermeasures , " Weinberger said . He said the 20 to 30 Iranian personnel on the oil platform were given a 20-minute warning to abandon the platform . "As far as we know they did abandon the site , " he said . Weinberger was asked why the United States had chosen to attack an oil platform rather than Iranian Silkworm missile platforms blamed by Washington for Friday 's attack . Reuter 
<TEST	21462	acq>
completed the sale of Cental Soya Co Inc to Ferruzzi Agricola Finanziaria the holding company for the Ferruzzi group of Ravenna , Italy . Shamrock Capital is a limited partnership led by Shamrock Holdings Inc the Roy E. Disney family company . Under the agreement announced last month , Ferruzzi acquired all the equity and assumed subordinated term debt of about 195 mln dlrs in a trction valued at about 370 mln dlrs . Reuter 
<TEST	21466	acq>
its subsidiary <Hong Kong Telephone Co Ltd> would cease to be a listed company , following the restructure of the company 's Hong Kong units . Earlier today the company announced that Hong Kong Telephone and Cable and Wireless Hong Kong , in which the territory 's government has a 20 pct stake , would become subsidiaries of a newly formed holding company , Hong Kong Telecommunications . In exchange for the Cable and Wireless Hong Kong capital , Hong Kong Telecommunications will issue 4.18 billion new shares to Cable and Wireless Pl c 's Cable and Wireless ( Far East ) Ltd. That subsidiary now holds the group 's 80 pct stake in Cable and Wireless Hong Kong and about 22 pct of H. K. Telephone . It will issue an additional 1.05 billion shares to the goverment . That will leave the Cable and Wireless group with an 80 pct stake in Hong Kong Telecommunications , the government 11 pct and nine pct in public hands . But that will be reduced early next year after a placement of 11 pct of the issued shares of Hong Kong Telecommunications by both Cable and Wireless and the government . Reuter 
<TEST	21469	acq>
led by chairman Samuel J. Heyman intends to reconsider its proposal to acquire GAF. On September 8 , the group offered 64.00 dlrs in cash and 2.50 dlrs principal amount of 15 pct junior subordinated debentures due 2007 for each GAF share . Heyman owns about 2,700,000 of GAF 's 33.5 mln shares outstanding . In a letter to the committee of independent directors formed to consider the offer , Heyman said it will have to modify the terms of the offer if it is to continue the bid , due to rising interest rates and financial market conditions . Heyman said " In the considerable time that has elapsed since our original proposal was submitted , the credit and financial markets have experienced extraordinary and almost unprecedented deterioration . As of the present time , the average interest rate on the financing which we proposed to raise in connection with the acquisition has increased , since the original proposal , by approximately 150 basis points . " He said the group intends to promptly review all available options , including the revision of its offer to reflect current market conditions . Reuter 
<TEST	21475	ship	crude>
oil rigs in the southern Gulf early on Monday , setting at least one of them ablaze , regional shipping sources said . Earlier today in Washington , U.S. Television networks had reported that American forces launched a retaliatory strike against Iran late Sunday , attacking two Iranian offshore oil drilling platforms and setting them ablaze . The shipping sources said Iran 's Sassan , Rostam and Rakhsh offshore oilfields were attacked at 0700 local ( 0300 GMT ) by a wave of jet fighter bombers . Smoke was seen spiralling up from the Rostam field soon after . At least one of the other two targets was also believed to be ablaze , the sources said . The Sassan and Rostam fields have been targets for Iraqi air strikes in the past , but Baghdad had not reported any southern Gulf missions prior to news of the latest attack . Shipping and military sources in the region have said Iran used its southern Gulf rigs as bases to launch helicopter and later speedboat attacks on neutral ships in the waterway . U.S. Officials had been meeting on a response since Friday when an attack on a Kuwaiti port severely damaged a U.S.-flagged ship . President Reagan said on Sunday he had already made a decision on the U.S. Response to Friday 's Iran attack but would not say what the decision was . REUTER 
<TEST	21477	money-fx>
Friedrich Wilhelm Christians said he believed the Louvre accord on currency stability was still intact . Christians told a news conference he met U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker in the last two weeks , after short term German interest rates had risen twice . " I am sure that with 1.7720 marks the dollar is still within the Louvre agreement . I do not see that the accord has been terminated , " Christians said . He was responding to questions about comments by Baker , who said the Louvre accord was still operative but criticised rises in West German interest rates . REUTER 
<TEST	21486	ship>
supplier of liquefied petroleum gas ( LPG ) to Japan for at least the next five years , oil industry sources said . Japan , while diversifying its supply sources of propane and butane for stable supplies , will continue to bank on Saudi Arabian LPG , the sources said . They said Saudi 's supply capabilities of LPG , an associate of crude oil , is guaranteed by its crude output capacity . " Saudi is a reliable supplier in that sense , " said one trader . Japan imports about 50 pct of its LPG from Saudi Arabia . No single nation could substitute for Saudi Arabia as an LPG supply source to Japan , the sources said . " Saudi Arabia has committed itself to Japanese LPG buyers , which has quelled fears that LPG supplies from the Mideast Gulf could easily be disrupted in the wake of heightened hostilities in that area , " said another trader . Saudi Arabia cut LPG shipments to Japan and elsewhere by 20 pct in September after a fire put a major gas plant at Al-Juaimah out of operation . October shipments were back to contractual volumes as Saudi was able to boost exports from other ports . Attacks on Gulf shipping by Iran and Iraq centered on crude rather than products carriers , which has lulled fears of LPG supply disruptions , traders said . They said an Iranian blockade of the Strait of Hormuz was unlikely because it would block Iran 's oil shipments . Industry sources said Japan 's LPG imports will not greatly rise or fall as its domestic demand growth is estimated at a moderate 2.1 pct a year from 1986 through 1991 . Japanese term buyers of Saudi LPG are expected to lift slightly lower volumes from January 1987 , when imports from Indonesia are slated to increase , the sources said . The customers are unlikely to slash Saudi term purchases in large scale when Japan increases annual imports of Indonesian LPG to 1.95 mln tonnes in early 1989 from 319,000 tonnes in the year ended March 1987 , the sources said . But when demand is sluggish in summer , they will phase down term purchases of Saudi LPG and secure lower-priced cargoes on the spot market , they said . Japan imports some 12 mln tonnes of LPG a year , of which 5.3 mln tonnes are supplied by Saudi Arabia , 3.3 mln under term contracts and two mln through spot purchases . Some 80 pct of Japan 's LPG imports are from the Middle East . Saudi Arabia 's state owned oil company Petromin has made some concessions on term prices to Japanese customers in the recent round of contract renewal talks , and it is likely the Japanese will accept the offer , the sources said . The Japanese term customers , however , have so far been unsuccessful in establishing a transparent price formula to replace the existing unilateral monthly price notice . Japanese buyers pay Saudi Arabia a price notified by Petromin each month . Most recently the FOB price was set at 87 pct of the 17.52 dlrs per barrel government selling price ( GSP ) of Arabian Light . Buyers reserve the right to phase down or out liftings should the monthly price be set at over 95 pct of Arabian Light 's GSP . Petromin has offered to lower this rate to 90 pct from the 95 pct for contracts with Japanese customers from next January , the trade sources said . Petromin also suggested that a seller 's option of supplying up to 20 pct more than the contractural volume be subject to seller-buyer agreement . Under the present contract , Petromin can automatically cut supplies up to 10 pct of the contractual volume . " If you want to import LPG from Saudi Arabia on a profitable basis , you have to set the price factor at 80 to 85 pct , " said an official at a major importer . " Freight costs are higher for cargoes coming from the Gulf than Southeast Asia due to a longer haul and war risk insurance payments . " Japanese customers will visit Saudi Arabia this month to finalise their separate contract talks , now focusing on contractual period and volume , which could be very similar to current levels , the sources said . " When we talk business , we would seek profitability and sometimes forget vulnerability of high dependence on a single supplier , " said one . REUTER 
<TEST	21492	crude	ship>
Monday that U.S. forces launched a retaliatory strike against Iran late Sunday , apparently attacking two Iranian offshore oil drilling platforms . NBC News said it understood six Iranians had been pulled from the sea . It said cautiously that U.S. forces attacked late Sunday and that two Iranian oil platforms east of Bahrain were ablaze as a result , but CBS News and other networks said flatly that U.S. forces attacked the Iranian oil platforms . U.S. officials had been meeting on a response since Friday when an attack on a Kuwaiti port severely damaged a U.S.-flagged ship . President Reagan said on Sunday he had already made a decision on the U.S. response to Friday 's Iran attack but would not say what the decision was . Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Saturday the attack on a U.S.-flagged ship in Kuwaiti waters on Friday was almost certainly by an Iran Silkworm missile . Reuter 
<TEST	21493	grain	corn>
to regulate maize forward trading , in what could be a first step towards a commodities futures exchange , maize dealers said . Traders and Internal Trade Department officials agreed last week to commission a study on a structure to regulate maize forward trading and to set up a company , Thailand Commodity Exchange Co Ltd , with 30 businesses as shareholders who will act as brokers in the futures market . Chanthong Pattamapong , a commodities trader asked to to draw up the study , said if the maize futures market succeeds it may be extended to other commodities , perhaps sugar and rubber . REUTER 
<TEST	21501	ship>
said he had no information on London oil and stock market rumors that the United States had launched a retaliatory strike against Iran for an attack on Friday that damaged a U.S. shi " I do n't have anything ," Major Randy Morger said . " I have no information at all . " President Reagan said on Sunday he had already made a decision on the U.S. response to Friday 's Iran attack but would not say what the decision was . Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Saturday the attack on a U.S.-flagged ship in Kuwaiti waters on Friday was almost certainly by an Iran Silkworm missile . Some of the rumors in the London markets were that the United States had launched an offshore strike against Iranian missile installations . Reuter 
<TEST	21502	crude>
pipeline system to be completed in 18-months time to start exports at a initial rate of 100,000 barrels per day , ( bpd ) the Middle East Economic Survey ( MEES ) said . MEES said government approval for the export pipeline followed a visit to Aden by a high ranking delegation from the Soviet Union , which will help South Yemen construct the line The engineering studies for the pipeline are nearly finished and construction is expected to start early next year , the industry newsletter said . The pipeline will run about 170-200 kms ( 105-125 miles ) from Shabwa oilfields to a coastal terminal at Bir ' Ali on the Gulf of Aden , MEES said . MEES said the Soviet firm Technoexport , which is developing oilfileds for South Yemen , has substantially increased its initial reserve estimates and recommended a pipeline with an eventual 500,000 bpd capacity . The discovery of commercial quaotities of oil was confirmed by Technoexport earlier this year in three structures in the Shabwa region in the Northwestern part of the country , 200 kms east of North Yemen 's Alif oilfield . REUTER 
<TEST	21503	acq>
acquired the entire share capital of <Capital Homes Inc> of the U.S. For 20 mln dlrs in cash . Capital Homes builds single family homes in the Washington D.C. Area and is also active as a land developer both for its own use and for sale to other builders . In the financial year to end February , 1987 , Capital recorded pre-tax profits of 3.7 mln dlrs on a turnover of 58 mln dlrs from the sale of 421 homes . Capital has a land bank of some 2,600 units and in the current year the company expects to sell 500 homes , Trafalgar House said . REUTER 
<TEST	21506	crude	ship>
affected by the seven-year Iran-Iraq war , Kuwait Oil Tanker Company ( KOTC ) Chairman and Managing Director Abdul Fattah al-Bader told a Kuwaiti newspaper . " K uwait has exploited all available opportunities to continue exporting its oil without any reduction , " the Al-Anbaa newspaper quoted him as saying . He said KOTC made profits of more than two mln dinars ( se ven mln dlrs ) in the fiscal year ending last June , but predicted lower profits this year due to higher costs for chartering and operating vessels . REUTER 
<TEST	21508	money-fx	interest>
central bank , and Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg are normally so much in agreement that some foreigners doubt the central bank 's independence . But a rare public row between the ebullient Poehl , president of the Bundesbank , and Stoltenberg , over a controversial investment tax proposal , has added to the woes of the country 's already nervous financial markets , bankers said . Poehl told an investment symposium in Frankfurt last Thursday he feared the tax would raise borrowing costs and interest rates Stoltenberg quickly issued a statement rebutting Poehl 's criticism , saying West Germany would remain an attractive place for foreign investors . " The obvious lack of coordination between the Bundesbank and Finance Ministry does not instil confidence in foreign investors , " said one economist for a London broker , who asked not to be identified . Bankers here expressed confidence the two top financial policy-makers would quickly patch up their relationship to steer the economy through a particularly difficult time . " There are plenty of objective pressures which will result in things getting back to normal again after a period of ill feeling , " said Commerzbank AG chief economist Juergen Pfister . News on October 9 that the government was planning a 10 pct withholding tax wiped billions of marks off shares and bonds in a market already reeling from rising interest rates at home and abroad . Bankers said the Bundesbank was angered by the way the finance ministry announced the plan without consulting the Bundesbank adequately , and allowing apparently conflicting details to dribble out into an unprepared and uncertain market . Both Poehl , 57 , and Stoltenberg , 59 , have been under extraordinary pressures lately . Poehl has had to switch to the hard line promoted by his deputy , Helmut Schlesinger , jacking up interest rates to fight inflationary fears and abandoning the pragmatic policies he had pursued so far this year to promote currency stability . In recent statements Poehl has sounded more like Schlesinger . For years the softly-spoken economist has been warning in speech after speech that excessive money supply growth would eventually lead to rising prices . Schlesinger now has a majority of support in the Bundesbank council , and since late summer Poehl has had to represent his views , bankers said . " Poehl is in a minority in his own house , " said Commerzbank 's Pfister . " Poehl is in a dilemma . He must follow a policy that is not entirely his own , " said another economist . The dilemma is that if German interest rates rise too far , they will attract funds into the country , pushing up the mark and hurting West German exporters . The dollar has now shed some seven pfennigs since the Bundesbank 's new tack became clear in early October . Since last Thursday , United States Treasury Secretary James Baker has criticized the Bundesbank rate increases . Bankers said this could foreshadow a revival of the 1986 war of words between the U.S. And West Germany , in which U.S. Officials talked down the dollar to force West Germany to stimulate its economy and thus suck in more U.S. Exports . One way West Germany agreed to do this was making a round of tax cuts worth 39 billion marks from 1990 . But financing these tax cuts has proved more difficult for Stoltenberg than he had bargained for . The cool , unflappable northerner , who was regularly voted most popular government politician last year , had to face resistance from local barons in the government coalition parties and from trade unions to his planned subsidy cuts . The withholding tax was intended to plug one gap by raising 4.3 billion marks . But it has caused an outcry among bankers , who say it will push up borrowing costs . The extra amount this costs the government could wipe out the revenue the tax brings in . Meanwhile Stoltenberg is dealing with a local political row which has turned into the country 's worst political scandal . Stoltenberg had to leave monetary talks in Washington last month early to sort out a row in the northern state of Schleswig-Holstein , where he heads the ruling CDU party . The state 's CDU premier , Uwe Barschel , had to resign after allegations of a " dirty tricks " election campaign led to heavy losses for the CDU in state elections . Barschel was found dead in a hotel bath in Geneva last weekend . Police say the death appears to have been suicide . Cooperation between Poehl and Stoltenberg is all the more remarkable as Poehl is in the opposition Social Democrats , and was appointed by former chancellor Helmut Schmidt . When Poehl 's contract came up for renewal earlier this year , Chancellor Helmut Kohl 's CDU-led coalition government gave Poehl another eight-year term . Werner Chrobok , managing partner at Bethmann Bank , said he hoped the two men would soon be of one opinion again . But when Poehl criticized Stoltenberg 's tax plans he was not only voicing what many bankers felt but demonstrating the Bundesbank 's independence of government , Chrobok said . REUTER 
<TEST	30001	money-fx	interest>
Anzola has submitted his resignation and asked President Jaime Lusinchi to transfer him to a post in the oil industry , two leading Venezuelan newspapers reported . The El Universal and El Nacional papers said Anzola would leave his position soon . Lusinchi already has decided on his successor , the El Nacional reported . Central Bank officials were not available for comment . Banking sources said Anzola differed with the Finance Ministry over economic policy , particularly over the direction of interest rates . He favoured raising the rates , which are currently well below the annual inflation rate of 33.2 pct . But the sources said he ran into opposition from Finance Ministry and government officials who thought an interest increase would fuel inflation . REUTER 
<TEST	21512	money-fx>
issued a firm call for the continued faithful application of the Louvre accords on currency stability by all major industrial countries . Balladur , responding to weekend remarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that the U.S. Would take another look at the accords , said " I firmly desire a faithfull and firm adherence by all the major industrial countries to the Louvre accords in both their letter and spirit . " On Sunday , Baker said last week 's rise in short-term West German interest rates was not in keeping with the accords . The Louvre accords , agreed in Paris last February , called for stability among the major currencies after a prolonged dollar slide . The accords were reaffirmed by the Group of Seven Finance Ministers in Washington last month . But Baker said at the weekend that the West German rate rise was " not in keeping with the spirit of what we agreed to . " " What I 'm really saying is that they should not expect us to simply sit back here and accept increased tightening on their part on the assumption that somehow we are going to follow them ," he added . REUTER 
<TEST	21517	ship>
against exacerbating the Gulf crisis , saying it would endanger American interests . Tehran Radio , monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation , said a spokesman for Iran 's War Information Headquarters was responding " to U.S. Officials ' remarks about taking military action against Iran . " The radio also quoted an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying Iran would respond decisively to any aggressive measure by the United States . The radio said the spokesman made the statement " following the attack on a Kuwaiti ship under the U.S. Flag and comments by American officials on carrying out retaliatory action against Iran . " The spokesman said , " Any U.S. Military aggression against Iran will certainly be the beginning of an extensive clash in the Persian Gulf , and amidst this our principled policy is to confront any act which escalates tension . " REUTER 
<TEST	21521	money-fx>
comment on weekend criticism by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker of recent West German interest rate increases . Baker said the U.S. Would re-examine the February Louvre Accord to stabilise currencies reached by leading industrial democracies . The rise in West Germany short term interest rates was not in the spirit of an agreement by these nations in Washington , which reaffirmed the Louvre pact , he said . A Finance Ministry spokesman , asked for an official ministry reaction to Baker 's remarks , said he could make no comment . REUTER 
<TEST	21523	ship>
dw , which was on fire , grounded then towed to Yantai , China , in August , had all its cargo reloaded but the cargo in the no . 3 hold caught fire on October 15 . The fire was put out with salt water and water from the no.4 hold has spread over most of the cargo . Some water is also in the no.5 hold . Bottom patching was reported complete but only the no.4 starboard wing tank has been pumped out and remains dry . The engine room is flooded to about three metres . The ship was originally loaded with 10,000 tonnes of animal feed . REUTER 
<TEST	21526	ship>
the British bulk carrier Envoy , 75,453 tonnes dw , was grounded at Mile 190 in the Orinoco river on October 16 . The vessel was on a voyage from Trombetas , Brazil , to Matanzas , Cuba , carrying 50,000 tonnes of bauxite . Its draught was 36 feet . Attempts to refloat the vessel with the help of six tugs have been unsuccessful . The owners are considering unloading part of the cargo onto barges . REUTER 
<TEST	30002	grain>
397 mln tonnes , eight mln tonnes short of its target , the New China News Agency quoted a State Statistical Bureau spokesman as saying . The harvest will be China 's second highest in history but poor weather and low incentives for grain-producing farmers have kept yields down , earlier Chinese press reports said . Industry sources expect China to import at least 10 mln tonnes of grain this year because of the harvest shortfall . Chinese customs figures showed grain imports of 9.59 mln tonnes in the first eight months of 1987 , compared with 6.09 mln in the same 1986 period . Agriculture Minister He Kang said last month state prices for grain purchase from growers were to be adjusted to increase the incentive for grain production . China could not afford to become a major food importer , he said . The State Statistics Bureau spokesman also said China 's 1987 cotton output was expected to rise 10 pct over 1986 to 390 mln tonnes . REUTER 
<TEST	21535	money-fx>
inflation rate to much lower levels to prevent a further decline in the rand , said Volkskas Bank in its monthly economic review . The bank said that without a major drop in the inflation rate , the rand was bound to eventually decrease even more , regardless of a sharp rise in the gold price . Inflation is running at an annual rate of some 17 pct and the rand is around 49.53 U.S. Cents . Most economists estimate continued high inflation . Volkskas predicted the rand will remain fairly steady for the rest of 1987 and then ease slightly next year . REUTER 
<TEST	21538	acq>
or has received acceptances representing 59.93 pct of the issued ordinary share capital of Guinness Peat Group Plc <GNSP.L> , Equiticorp said in a statement . Equiticorp 's offer for Guinness Peat became unconditional on October 3 , when it had 50.6 pct , and closed on October 17 . REUTER 
<TEST	21539	money-fx>
extended its suspension of trading in the Lebanese pound for two more working days to study ways to stem the currency 's collapse . The Central Bank did not post the rate of the pound to the dollar and other currencies on Monday . The pound closed on Thursday at 407.00/412.00 to the dollar compared with Wednesday 's close of 384.00/386.00 . Association sources told Reuters Friday 's suspension of trading for two working days was continued on Monday for two more days so as to study proposals to reinforce the pound . The Association , which comprises 106 commercial banks in east and west Beirut , halted trading on Friday in a chaotic market after the pound crashed to four record lows in the week . The pound , hit by the inability of Lebanon 's religiously and ideologically divided government to end 12 years of civil war , has lost more than 80 pct of its international value this year . REUTER 
<TEST	21541	crude>
<STAT.OL> , operator on Norway 's North Sea Veslefrikk oil field , has placed field development contracts totalling 1.5 billion crowns with two domestic yards , the company said in a statement . Moss Rosenberg Verft , a subsidiary of Kvaerner Industrier A/S <KVIO.OL> won a 1.2 billion crown contract to convert Statoil 's semisubmersible rig West Vision to a floating production platform and to build the deck for a separate , fixed well-head platform to be placed on the field , it said . Statoil said Aker Verdal , a unit of Aker Norcem A/S <AMVO.OL> , won a 300-mln crown contract to design and build the well-head platform 's 10,000-tonne steel substructure , to stand in 150 metres of water next to the converted rig . Statoil said using a floating production unit rather than a fixed platform would cut construction time , enabling field partners to bring Veslefrikk on stream in late 1989 several months earlier than previously planned . Veslefrikk , with estimated recoverable reserves of 258 mln barrels oil and 140 billion cubic feet gas , is located 145 km west of Bergen . Statoil estimates the field 's total development cost , including drilling , at 6.6 billion crowns . Planned daily output is 65,000 barrels oil and 35 mln cubic feet gas . Veslefrikk 's oil will be landed via the nearby Oseberg field pipeline at the Sture crude terminal near Bergen . Its gas will be fed into the Statpipe line , which gathers gas from Norway 's Statfjord , Gullfaks and Oseberg fields . Partners on the field are Statoil , the operator , with a 55 pct share , <Unocal Norge A/S > ( 18 pct ) , <Deminex ( Norge ) A/S > ( 13.5 pct ) , Norsk Hydro A/S <NHY.OL> ( nine pct ) and <Svenska Petroleum AB> ( 4.5 pct ) . REUTER 
<TEST	21542	money-fx>
still comply with last February 's Louvre accord to stabilize currencies , a senior Bank of Japan official said . And U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker 's remarks at the weekend indicating the need to revise it do not herald a lower range for the dollar , other senior officials from the Bank of Japan and Finance Ministry agreed in interviews . " The exchange market is apparently reacting too much , and anyone who sold the dollar on the Baker comment will regret it later on , " the Bank of Japan official told Reuters . The Bank official said Baker did not mean to talk the dollar down . A lower dollar would harm the U.S. E c on omy , he noted . A Finance Ministry official who was directly involved in monetary talks with other nations also said the U.S. Would never attempt to lower the reference range for the dollar against the mark or the yen . The market assumes the dollar reference range to be between 140-150 yen and between 1.70 and 1.90 marks . The dollar closed in Tokyo today at 1.7730/35 marks and 141.35 yen . " Behind Baker 's remark was U.S. Frustration over higher interest rates abroad , especially in West Germany , but this does not represent its readiness to scrap the basic framework of the Louvre accord , " the Finance Ministry official said . He said that on the contrary Baker wanted to avoid any further rise in U.S. Interest rates because it would not only hurt the U.S. Economy but aggravate the Third World debt problem . Higher U.S. Interest rates would merely raise their interest payment burden and depress U.S. Stock and bond markets further , the monetary officials said . Both the ministry and central bank officials , who declined to be named , noted the U.S. No longer wants to see a further decline of the dollar because that could also fan inflationary expectations in the U.S. "That 's why Baker did not fail to add that the Louvre agreement is still operative , " the senior ministry official said . Baker said in a U.S. Television interview on Sunday that Washington would reexamine the Louvre accord because of West Germany 's increase in short-term interest rates . The market at first interpreted this as indicating the U.S. Would be ready to scrap the Louvre accord and let the dollar decline further unless surplus countries , notably West Germany , try harder to stimulate their economies as pledged in the accord , foreign exchange dealers said . But the market on reflection also noted Baker 's additional statement that " the Louvre agreement is still operative , " and this caused some dollar short-covering in Tokyo today , the dealers said . Uncertainty , however , remained the flavour of the day in Tokyo currency markets . The Japanese monetary officials said Baker 's undisguised pressure on West Germany to refrain from guiding interest rates higher may be part of a process of multilateral surveillance , or international economic policy coordination . The G-7 , comprising the U.S. , Japan , West Germany , Britain , France , Italy and Canada , have agreed to monitor each other 's economic policies and from time to time apply " peer pressur e " to persuade others to change their policies to a desired course , they noted . " Without such a basic agreement of multilateral surveillance , Baker would never have criticized the West German policy so openly , " the ministry official said . The U.S.-West German squabble over Bonn 's monetary policy should thus be regarded as a process of healthy policy coordination and not as any indication of a possible collapse of the Louvre agreement , the official said . He also said Japan has not received any specific request from the U.S. On its monetary policy , although its short-term money rates have been edging higher . " This is because we , unlike the Germans , are not taking policy to guide interest rates higher , and the marginal rate rise in recent days is primarily for seasonal reasons , " he added . REUTER 
<TEST	21550	acq>
will merge its Hong Kong Telephone Co Ltd <TELH.HK> and <Cable and Wireless ( Hong Kong ) Ltd> units into a new holding firm to be called <Hong Kong Telecommunications Ltd> . Under the merger , H. K. Telephone shareholders will receive two H. K. Telecommunication shares at a par value of 50 H. K. Cents for each H. K. Telephone share at par of one dlr . H. K. Telephone shareholders other than the Cable and Wireless group will receive warrants on a one-for-five basis entitling them to acquire from Cable and Wireless Plc within five years one H. K. Telecom share at 10 dlrs each . The Cable and Wireless Plc group now holds some 70 pct of H. K. Telephone . It also owns 80 pct of Cable and Wireless ( Hong Kong ) , while the Hong Kong government holds the balance . Trading in H. K. Telephone shares was suspended on October 15 . The shares last traded at 19.30 dlrs . REUTER 
<TEST	21556	money-fx>
issued a firm call for the continued faithful application of the Louvre accords on currency stability by all major industrial countries . Balladur , responding to weekend remarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that the U.S. Would take another look at the accords , said " I firmly desire a faithfull and firm adherence by all the major industrial countries to the Louvre accords in both their letter and spirit . " On Sunday , Baker said last week 's rise in short-term West German interest rates was not in keeping with the accords . The Louvre accords , agreed in Paris last February , called for stability among the major currencies after a prolonged dollar slide . The accords were reaffirmed by the Group of Seven Finance Ministers in Washington last month . But Baker said at the weekend that the West German rate rise was " not in keeping with the spirit of what we agreed to . " " What I 'm really saying is that they should not expect us to simply sit back here and accept increased tightening on their part on the assumption that somehow we are going to follow them ," he added . REUTER 
<TEST	21561	money-fx>
gains tax could bring about an urgently needed depreciation of the N.Z. Dollar , independent economist Len Bayliss said . Bayliss , a former economist with the Reserve Bank and the Bank of New Zealand , said a major depreciation is needed to restore export competitiveness even if inflation is cut by current government policies . The taxes would help cut the budget deficit , which in turn would lower the value of the N.Z. Dollar , he said in a speech . He added that the deficit for the year ending March 1988 could be much higher than the government 's 1.3 billion dlr forecast . Since the government was unlikely to cut expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product , a major tax increase was probably unavoidable , Bayliss said . He would have preferred an increase in the 10 pct value-added goods and services tax , introduced in October 1986 , but that would have had a short-term inflationary impact . Import tariffs should be lowered to minimise the inflationary impact of a currency depreciation . The government had failed to bring inflation down despite lower oil prices and an appreciation in the currency , he added . New Zealand 's inflation rate was 16.9 pct in the year to end-September against 18.9 pct in the year to end June . The major deficiency in the government 's anti-inflation policies was reliance on high interest and exchange rates and insufficient emphasis on reducing the budget deficit , Bayliss said . The government had also failed to reduce overseas debt and debt ratios and cut the balance of payments deficit . " The widespread belief that ( New Zealand 's ) problems are going to take much longer to solve than was originally thought is soundly based primarily because the government 's macro-economic policies have been unsuccessful , " Bayliss said . REUTER 
<TEST	21562	trade>
542 mln dlrs in the eight months to end-August from 159 mln dlrs in the same 1986 period , the National Statistics Office said . It said exports in the eight-month period rose to 3.58 billion dlrs from 3.18 billion in 1986 , while imports rose to 4.12 billion dlrs from 3.34 billion a year earlier . The country 's trade deficit totalled 202 mln dlrs in 1986 . REUTER 
<TEST	30003	crude>
Iran with refined oil products in exchange for 100,000 barrels per day of crude , Iran 's national news agency , IRNA , said . IRNA , monitored in Nicosia , quoted Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh as saying on his return to Tehran from Moscow that the agreement was part of a protocol on economic cooperation signed during his visit . The amount of crude delivered to the Soviet Union might double to 200,000 bpd later , he said . Aqazadeh said the two sides agreed to conduct feasibility studies for a pipeline to take Iranian crude from fields in southern Iran to the Black Sea through the Soviet Union . Iran is pursuing the pipeline project to protect part of its oil exports from Iraqi air attacks in the Gulf . Irna made no mention of natural gas exports to the Soviet Union , which Aqazadeh had said would be discussed before he left for Moscow . Iran lost most of its refining capacity early in the Gulf war and now imports several hundred thousand bpd of refined products . Aqazadeh said Soviet refined products would be delivered at the Caspian Sea ports of Anzali and Nowshahr , at Neka , near the Caspian , and at Jolfa in north-west Iran . REUTER 
<TEST	30004	grain>
in the week ended October 13 from 54,075 the previous week , the Commerce Ministry said . It said the government and private exporters shipped 26,272 and 46,715 tonnes respectively . Private exporters concluded advance weekly sales for 106,640 tonnes against 98,152 the previous week . The said it ministry expects at least 65,000 tonnes in exports next week . Thailand has shipped 3.43 mln tonnes of rice in the year to date , down from 3.68 mln a year ago . It has commitments to export another 388,390 tonnes this year . REUTER 
<TEST	21571	acq>
make an offer for all fully-paid shares and options of <Entregrowth International Ltd> it does not already own . Chase , a property investment firm , said it holds 48 pct of Entregrowth , its vehicle for expansion in North America . It said agreements are being concluded to give it a beneficial 72.4 pct interest . The offer for the remaining shares is one Chase share for every three Entregrowth shares and one Chase option for every four Entregrowth options . Chase shares closed on Friday at 4.41 dlrs and the options at 2.38 . Entregrowth closed at 1.35 dlrs and options at 55 cents . Chase said the offer for the remaining 27.6 pct of Entregrowth , worth 34.2 mln dlrs , involved the issue of 5.80 mln Chase shares and 3.10 mln Chase options . Chase chairman Colin Reynolds said the takeover would allow Entregrowth to concentrate on North American operations with access to Chase's international funding base and a stronger executive team . He said there also would be benefits from integrating New Zealand investment activities . Chase said the offer is conditional it receiving accptances for at least 90 pct of the shares and options . REUTER 
<TEST	21573	money-fx>
nervously to see if the U.S. Dollar will drop below the significant 140.00 yen level , dealers said . " The 140 yen level is key for the dollar because it is considered to be the lower end of the reference range . If the currency breaks through this level , it may decline sharply , " said Hirozumi Tanaka , assistant general manager at Dai-ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd 's international treasury division . The dollar was at 141.10 yen at midday against Friday closes of 142.35/45 in New York and 141.35 here . The dollar opened at 140.95 yen and fell to a low of 140.40 . It was 1.7733/38 marks against 1.7975/85 in New York and 1.8008/13 here on Friday , after an opening 1.7700/10 . The currency 's decline was due to remarks on Sunday by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker , dealers said . " The dollar fell over the weekend on increased bearish sentiment after Baker 's comments , " said Dai-ichi 's Tanaka . He said this stemmed from mounting concern that cooperation among the group of seven ( G-7 ) industrial nations to implement the Louvre accord to stabilise currencies might be fraying . The dollar 's fall was also prompted by a record one-day drop in the Dow Jones industrial average on Friday and weakness in U.S. Bond prices , dealers said . Baker said the Louvre accord was still operative but he strongly criticised West German moves to raise key interest rates . Operators took Baker 's comment to indicate impatience with some G-7 members for failing to stick to the Louvre accord due to their fears of increasing inflation . Rises in interest rates aimed at dampening inflationary pressures also slow domestic demand . West Germany and Japan had both pledged at G-7 meetings to boost domestic demand to help narrow the huge U.S. Trade deficit , Tanaka said . U.S. August trade data showed the U.S. Deficit at a still massive 15.68 billion dlrs . But if West Germany raises interest rates , this would run counter to the pledge , he said . " O perators are now waiting to see if the G-7 nations coordinate dollar buying intervention , " said Soichi Hirabayashi , deputy general manager of Fuju Bank Ltd 's foreign exchange department . The target range set by the Louvre accord is generally considered to be 140.00 to 160.00 yen , dealers said . " The market is likely to try the 140 yen level in the near future and at that time , if operators see the G-7 nations failing to coordinate intervention , they would see the Louvre accord as abandoned and push the dollar down aggressively , " Hirabayashi said . He said the U.S. Currency could fall as low as 135 yen soon . REUTER 
<TEST	21574	ship>
shipping conference said it would cut the extra risk insurance surcharges on shipments to Iranian and Iraqi ports to a minimum three pct from 4.5 pct on October 25 . It said surcharges on shipments of all break-bulk cargoes to non-Iraqi Arab ports would be reduced to 3.0 pct from 4.5 . A conference spokesman declined to say why the move was taken at a time of heightened tension in the Gulf . REUTER 
